{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red191\green191\blue191;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c79525;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 General Comments\
It has been a fascinating subject to learn and very rewarding. The pace of learning and materials are spot on.  \
The course is brilliant, very interactive . Theory is broughtt to life in debates. Best move I made is signing up \
\
A thoroughly enjoyable course, professionally run and organised with all aspects of students needs being met. Everything is simply explained and achievable. The content has been carefully considered so as not to overwhelm the student and is introduced at the appropriate stages. Regular checking of knowledge and understanding is carried out and any ambiguity is covered and backed up with practical and simple examples. \
\
I am thoroughly enjoying this course. It covers an awful lot more than I thought it would. The course is very well put together and Gary is so informative and patient and helpful that he delivers it fantastically. Gary makes me feel at ease and confident to ask questions which is everything that I usually struggle with. Highly recommend to anyone and everyone \
Amazing course and Gary is very easy to listen to and its comfortable to chat/ ask questions/ interact as a group.  Lack of tea and coffee from the venue hosts is the only downside!! \
Stimulating and interesting. Positive learning environmenr.\
Brilliant!  I\'82\'c4\'f4m getting so much out of the course both personally and professionally. I\'82\'c4\'f4m excited about what I\'82\'c4\'f4ve leant and feel that it has completely changed me as a person in an unbelievably positive way. \
This course is engaging and extremely informative. It has completely changed my life for the better and I'm excited to say I can change others lives for the better too\
This course has changed my life. Understanding how my own brain works has changed my outlook on life for the better.  The lecturers make really hard neuroscience stuff to understand and explain it in a way that you can understand it. I have already been recommending this course to anyone who will listen.   Thank you!\
The booking could be better, there was no official correspondence the tell us about the course until just before the course started, I think if there was a generic email once you\'82\'c4\'f4ve paid the deposit to say what to expect - ie: thanks for booking, we\'82\'c4\'f4ll be in touch a week before the start of the course we\'82\'c4\'f4d not worry about not hearing before.\
I\'82\'c4\'f4m absolutely loving this course. Learning to be a hypnotherapist in such a supportive group is great! The course is very well presented with excellent course notes and peer support. Gary and the team make sure we have fun too sometimes \
Proof reading the handouts a little better would be an improvement. There are a number of typos which can put you off your flow if undetected before you start reading. Otherwise love everything !\
The facilities could do with a good clean, but the course, well, it's early days but I'm growing in confidence because I can see a future where I can make the difference that I've always hoped for.\
The course and the trainer were fantastic.. I would highly recommend this course to anyone aspiring to be a clinical hypnotherapist.  \
The course was brilliant. It was engaging from beginning to end and we learned all the tools and knowledge to set up a practice immediately. \
Changed my life !!!! Would recommend everyone should do this course !!!\
Fantastic course, well structured. Trainer knowledgeable as he is a practitioner too so that's great. Overall the facilitates were fine, coffee not great quality. Admin- on issues  \
I am really enjoying the course. The tutors are  knowledgeable and approachable. I am looking forward to the rest of the course and feel confident about putting all my learning into practice. \
An amazing course. Right from the first weekend you are given actionable content that dramatically increases your knowledge of your own brain, and gives you insight into how you can start to help others. I feel like a missing piece of me has finally slotted into place\
\
Good course, well delivered, easily understood. Able to use the new skills in all daily aspects of life. Transferable skills for use inside and outside of work\
\
\
\
I enjoyed the introduction to couching and it is seriously making me think about completing another level\
The course was very well planned, starting off with the fundamentals and progressing to the coaching practice on the second day.\
Course content was very good. Plenty of information on booklet provided by trainer.\
Fell the course is to long I know you are fitting a lot in one session but was starting to lose concentration towards the end\
usually I struggle on day courses in the afternoon , but my concentration was good all day and took a huge amount from the day which has linked in to my ILAM level 3 apprenticeship which I am  currently  completing\
I think everyone would benefit from taking this course to allow better understanding of H&S.\
\
See comments above. Also it would be useful to have print out of the power point slides to keep in the folder as my hand written notes make not make much sense when looking back in the future. \
Would prefer to have some hand outs - as it would be easier to follow the content\
Having the insights report as part of this training was invaluable as well as being a added extra that you can really study and understand who you are as a manager.  Marion Letham is a fantastic trainer, we gained so much from our 2 day session with her.  She is very approachable, friendly and encouraging.  Her insights and knowledge on this topic were top notch.  I will be recommending that other new managers in our organisation complete this course and indeed that we re-use Marion as a trainer on other related courses.\
I felt the course content and materials were suited to the course, easy to follow\
\
would prefer o have source material or highlights to review before course\
\
The only thing that I would criticise is that I wish I left with some more actionable steps on how to implement what we learned in terms of coaching and how to practice it.\
\
\
Clay Farm is a lovely location for training but at the moment the noise from the ongoing building work outside is quite loud and distracting\
\
\
Used a range of approaches and methods which were thought provoking. Gave physical steps to implementing initiatives.\
\
Where I have marked the scores down slightly on the above would possibly be more down to my expectation of the course in terms of it's relevance to me which isn't so much a criticism of the course as it is just the fact that some of it wasn't relevant to me.\
\
\
\
\
Excellent course \
\
\
\
\
\
Martin set the scene from the outset, specifying the learning outcomes but also taking on board any other related aspects we as a group wanted to get out of the course.  The small group worked extremely well together, a bonding experience, complimented by Martin.  We were learning constantly and seemed to cover so much ground but in-depth, nothing was considered of less value.  The practical side of the course was invaluable, thought provoking and really well structured.\
It would be beneficial to have a follow-up optional course available to those attended.  \
\
I felt the course could have been more specific into the duties and responsibilities of a H&S Representative. The tools necessary to conduct this role effectively were only touched on and too much time was spent talking about legal structure rather than talking about what legislation and prosecution methods are relevant to H&S.   I would have liked more detail on reporting on incidents and the importance of doing so emphasised to the attendees.   The trainer conducted himself well and I liked his style of teaching but felt that the course content needed to be adjusted.\
\
The room was a little small and we had to have our lunch in it. Nicer to be able to go to a different space for lunch and then return to training as hard to spend all day in one small room. Filming us would of been a useful addition to the course in order to fully critique our own presentations. \
Really impressed with the content and the trainer. There were lots of ideas to take back to the office to improve the way we work.\
\
\
Trainer kept the group engaged and the right amount of interaction tools were used - not too much or too less. I have already recommended to colleagues.  Please can you use my full name on my certificate: CATERINA DUNNING \
\
\
\
\
\
We have no where to store folders anymore.... its not the content, just not that practical in having this type / style of documentation any more.\
\
The slides were useful but hopefully they will be shared as the projection was a bit off and the left of the slides cut off making some difficult to read\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
All good.\
\
\
\
\
\
all I needed \
\
\
\
\
\
THE COURSE WAS WELL PRESENTED AND THE TRAINER WENT THROUGH SOME OF THE TRAINING WHICH IS NEEDED FOR OUR ROLES.\
\
\
\
I would like to thank Brian for taking the course.  He was very understanding in relation to my needs and also supportive when I got nervous in relation to the minute taking section.  Overall it was a very useful day.\
\
\
\
\
\
An enjoyable day overall. The trainer was very knowledgeable but also very good at listening and allowing people space to share.  \
\
\
\
See likes/dislikes above  In addition, I took the notes out of the plastic folder and returned the folder to the trainer to (hopefully) recycle.  I don't think the course warranted a whole folder, let alone one that was of a style that it couldn't be reused. Re Certificate of attendance question below - I have not had a certificate.  Would be useful for my CPD.  Perhaps the brief given for the course was wrong.  Certainly didn't meet my expectations, though may have met the brief?\
\
\
Very good. Really worth the invested time.  Thank you.\
I would have preferred slide handouts, especially where we were discussing the different models to leadership. \
The course was run at just the right pace. There was never a time when I thought, this part is going on a bit.\
Handouts had been reused so answers were already on the sheet. \
\
\
\
I achieved more from this course than I had expected, and it created good ideas for changes that I will forward onto management for them to ignore or shoot down in flames\
The printed version of the notes did not seem to have the full presentation.  The trainer provided this by email though.\
Great course overall, good content and delivery by Margaret. Lunch and catering throughout the day was excellent. Good venue.\
I found the training course so useful and have come away with a lot more knowledge and things that I can put into practice back at the office.  The facilities were great.  The lunch and refreshments throughout the day could not have been better.\
I have Ceoliac and had asked for a gluten free lunch. This was not issue and my order was taken and i really enjoyed it  there was no hassle or mix ups.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
overall excellent\
The course material pages handed out to us where old and had all the answers written on them by previous students. The excuse given to us was that the trainer wanted to save trees by not printing them all the time. I find this quite unprofessional \
\
\
\
I just thought it was an excellent course and the trainer was superb. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
overall the course was everything i was hoping to know after!!! i was highly impress witch what I know now and did not believe that this was even possible  \
\
\
\
As above the course is far too short for the information you have to learn. It should also be open book exam. you can not retain all the information in a course that this short. NEBOSH training needs to be updated to allow for people like me that have dyslexia, we can not cope with all this hand writing and spelling, I and others like be never do very well in exams like this, we learn differently than the mainstream. Computers has helped me over the years, so I cannot understand why exams cant be done on computers, this would be a massive help.   \
\
the lunch provided was excellent the girl looked after us very well ensuring we had hot water for tea/ coffee and cold water she was extremly plesant.  Alan is excellent at training, very easy to get on with and his examples are great, any work we sent him out of hours was always answered within the hour! \
The handouts and questionnaires were really useful and I think there are a few links to follow that I can use in the workplace.\
\
\
I think allowing the group to decline role play was probably an error since a lot of the content seemed geared that way.   The fishbone diagram was helpful and something I hadn't seen before. \
The corse did provide a nice booklet with a lot of information but during the session we did not go through it\
\
First class.\
Brilliant course, with a very knowledgeable trainer. Brian was great at listening, identifying and helping with any issues that I had and left me feeling empowered and helped with my confidence, which I will be able to take with me wherever I go. \
Food was quick, well presented and good to eat. Staff were friendly and the restaurant was quiet.\
\
As my comments above, I feel as though an understanding of Visualsoft and how the company has set up their policies would have given this more context. \
There was no direction for the course, it was great we had discussions, but it felt like it was a discussion which could have taken place over half a day. There didn't seem much guidance and it was more direct at difficult conversations with clients, whereas more of the difficult conversations are with employees.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
I was booked to attend this course November 2018 and was advised that the course was cancelled due to lack of numbers attending that particular session.  It was reschedulled for Feb 19.   Communication sent out prior to day one, stated training commenced 10:30-16:30. On day one, the training was cancelled, I got word of this at 09:50, 40 minutes before training was due to start.  I went to work that day very unprepared for a day at the office.  On Day two, (which was then actually day one) at approx 09:45 I got a call to advise me training began at 9am.  At no stage was this communicated and found this to have been very disruptive and it was almost 11am before formal training commenced and one delegate could not commit to attending the third day due to her work commitments.  Cosesna should have made better effort to communicate these changes on what was supposed to be day one, to each of the delegates.  This last minute change impacted on the other end of the day and training ran over the 16:30 finish time, on both this day and the next day which caused disruption to childcare and I had also to rearrange work and home commitments to ensure I was able to attend third day on the Friday.  There was a notable absence of effective communication from cosensa to the delegates.  The course content was interesting and the trainer was knowledgable.\
VERY RELAXED AND ENJOYABLE DAY\
\
\
\
\
No lunch was served\
Could maybe be more content on coaching in different every day work place scenarios.\
\
Too many videos. Content a little repetitive\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The biggest benefit form this course was having the time to thinking about 'influencing', under the guidance of a trainer.  There wasn't much in the way of course material, which suited the topic well.\
Unfortunately we couldn't watch the video due to IT issues and I felt we could have spent longer on bad vs good influencing behaviours. We had time to because we finished at 13.00  Lynda was very good instructor though and perhaps more interactive material such as video and role play could have been used. \
\
\
Paul was an excellent trainer, who properly tailored the course to our group. He didn't go too heavy into the theory, he encouraged small practical changes and had an engaging style.  His phonecall beforehand was invaluable as he understood his audience and tailored his talk and facilitated discussions accordingly.  The day flew, and I came out highly motivated to make changes, and have been doing so already!\
\
\
Whilst I appreciate this training was delivered on a one-to-one basis, I felt the actual training environment and equipment was not appropriate - the chairs were not computer operator chairs and didn't provide adequate back support and laptops were used rather than desktop PCs, which meant the monitor wasn't at a suitable height which wasn't really appropriate for a full day's training.  I appreciate this set up may have been arranged because of the one-to-one delivery, but it wasn't really conducive to a computer learning course environment.\
When I turned up the lights were off and the tutor wasn't there.  The computers were difficult to get going and two of them had unlicensed excel on it which means we couldn't open a new spreadsheet. The tutor also couldn't get his computer connected up and had to leave it for a while until someone came to fix all the issues so it did feel a bit unorganized.  Lunch was ok but I don't think there was enough food as all of the sandwiches were eaten.  There was no cold drinks with lunch and no sweet things apart from yogurts, lunch overall was a bit disappointing.  The course however was great, the tutor was brilliant and very engaging. \
The laptops were a bit troublesome - some of them didn't have a licenced copy of excel on them, this probably should have been checked prior to the start of the day.  Also the big screen hadn't been set up for Mitchell to use, and someone only came to fix it over an hour into the course.  These were dealt with well by Mitch, he was able to keep it going and fix IT issues at the same time, but I feel like he shouldn't have had to deal with that stress!\
\
Mitchell was a brilliant trainer, he managed to cover a large range of topics in a short time.  His explanations and demonstrations were thorough and helpful.  The only slight issue with the training were the IT glitches.\
I would have liked more examples of diagrams. \
Kristian was an excellent facilitator. His knowledge and expertise of the course and content was very evident and supported learning. He kept the course stimulating throughout and was more than happy to go over things again to ensure our understanding. I found the session really valuable and look forward to further developing my skills. I would highly recommend the course. \
\
N/A\
It is often difficult to make a dry subject interesting, but a little colour in the training material would make it more interesting\
\
I thought that Lennie who delivered my training day was an extremely good facilitator. I was slightly apprehensive about being the only individual on the course but it was immediatley clear that he knew how to identify the kind of training style that would benefit me the most. I would highly reccomend him to any future taining days my organisation might use. He came accross as extremely experienced and knowledgable on managment and presentation skills and used a multitude of different examples and generally made the whole day enjoyable. \
\
\
good training\
\
\
\
The lunch was not good in the slightest. The soup was luke warm and tasteless. The sandwiches had been sitting out for a while as the bread was hard. There was not enough food for us all, still hungry after.\
\
Great trainer, he explain all subject of matters with us.\
Fairly standard content. Good trainer.\
\
Didn't rate booking process as course was booked by work on my behalf\
Well programed course with smooth flow of topics.\
\
I am involved in risk management but not in the business side so a lot of the terminology went straight over my head. I understand the course is pitched at people above my pay grade so it can't be dumbed down for people like me but maybe a glossary would be useful.\
Vidette knew a lot about the subject and gave some very good examples. It was tiring but enjoyable, we got a few action points to follow up with. \
\
Overall a very informative and helpful course.\
may have been useful to have had a number of risk assessments to look at \
A very well written and delivered course. I really enjoyed the day and found it very informative.\
\
Overall a professional executed package which highlighted the key areas to address. \
As above we still have not received the training packs, the trainer managed to get a pdf which we had printed off. However the page numbers were missing, so referring back to it or at specific points was difficult\
I very much appreciated the flexibility of Cosensa to meet my needs in terms of location, timing, and course contents. \
\
\
Unfortunately, I'm a picky eater and didn't like any of the options. I left the site and bought my own lunch, but I should have let you know this beforehand. \
\
Kristin was knowlegeable and was an excellent  trainer.  Excellent people skills, good interaction, listening and guagng people's limitations  and experience and understanding.  \
\
Perhaps smaller groups / individual focus could benefit further. \
\
Was unsure what to expect and was slightly nervous but Joe put us at ease, explained the course fully and involved us all every step of the way.  Have came away with coaching skills that will aid me in my role moving forward.\
\
I really enjoyed this training course and I believe what joe has taught me can help me on a daily basis to help out fellow members of staff and to advance them further.\
\
\
This course needs reviewing and updating for more modern technology + practises.\
\
Enjoyed the course\
Very good practical technics explained and how best to implement them to your current working load and task management system.\
\
\
Overall I thoroughly enjoyed the course. The training was engaging, and Brian was always open to questions that would arise during the day. He helped us with managing our time, and how to deliver a project properly, and most importantly professionally. \
Excellent course for anyone who works in a Project Management role and also for anyone who is looking to develop skills to help support the management of projects in their workplace. This course is very interactive and you do a lot of 'out of the box thinking' which helps you to understand the concept of Project Management and how to apply your new skills in your current role. Excellent trainer who provided good examples of his own experiences as a Project Manager and was happy to answer any questions. \
Very good and well delivered course. \
Course was both enjoyable and educational. Did not seem rushed to get through the material\
\
\
Brian is an excellent trainer and made the course very enjoyable. \
\
\
\
Lunch was lovely - thank you.\
I thought the lunch was really good I enjoyed it and good selection of food.\
The food supplied was very nice. There was a good selection of sandwiches and biscuits etc to suit everyones needs.\
Very good and knowledgeable. Teacher was good and helping \
What's not to like about Domino pizza...  first rate!  There was a few computer glitches on the day, which took up a bit of time to sort and would have been better if the hardware was tested in advance... The online payment method didn't work too well, but maybe just me...  I was hoping to pay by visa over the phone as most businesses accept that method...\
I felt the afternoon session was rushed, especially when we had stated that internal negotiation was a key point of the day.\
Priorr to the course i was advisedby Cosensa that i could park in the Stirling Business car park and if full there was parking available in the Wellgreen car park across the road. I was told by reception that i could not park in the car park and had to pay for parking at the Wellgreen car park. My trainer advised that i should have been allowed entry so Id rather feedback my experience for clarification with the Business centre for future courses. \
\
Lunch could have been bigger. \
i didn't eat the lunch provided , i went outside the facility to get my own so my rating on lunch isnt a valid one \
\
\
\
\
\
My only negative about the course was I found it very restrictive being in the one room all day from 9am until 4.30pm  - it would be more ideal to have the catering in another area so that you get to leave the training area for a short while.  The scones and sandwiches from M&S were nice.\
\
\
Although an intermediate course the trainer had to deal with attendees who had virtually no experience with Excel, however she did a great job and including and increasing the knowledge of those with a bit more experience\
Covered all aspects of the training I required.\
\
There were a few errors on some of the slides (and in the handout) which need amended.  It would also have been useful to have had the formulae for financial ratios on the slides.\
\
\
We were in suite 4A , the photocopier was being used and was a little distracting. Course tutor spoke to relevant person and it was sorted. Perhaps something to consider when holding courses in that training suite.\
Enjoyed the course more than I thought I would and learned a few things in the process.\
It was interesting and useful. The content is matching with our job requirement . \
I enjoyed the course, it was very informative and will help me in my current position.\
\
Simon, the instructor, was very kind, engaging and knowledgeable. Although I think the course would have been more beneficial in a group setting, I still came away with some good advice going forward. Thank you!\
I really struggled when asked to do the exercise and when I asked the trainer for support I still didn't have a clue what I was doing. \
\
Very enjoyable course! \
Really enjoyed the course.  Many thanks\
This course met all expectations and objectives. Margaret is an excellent trainer. A thoroughly enjoyable and productive course.\
\
\
\
Good Experience for an aspiring Branch manager & i've taken a lot from this day.\
\
\
\
The training was hugely informative.  Brian's delivery of all material was clear and consise, littered with fun aspects throughout.  Despite all 4 of us being from different work backgrounds, I feel all was covered and there was something for everyone within the material.\
\
\
\
\
\
I enjoyed the course as there was a lot of interaction with the trainer and the attendees, as explained it relevant to our current roles within the business and I took a lot away from the day.\
\
\
I am not sure the blind folded building/dismantling part of the course was the best use of our time. I think doing it once would have been enough for everyone to understand from all parts sides. \
\
the home made stew was delicious \
Good course and well delivered\
\
I would have perhaps liked some more diagrams of the models Joe talked about but to be fair I understand these may follow later this week. Overall it was a good experience,  Joe is a very knowledgeable individual who has a very good understanding of the psychological models he is referring to and is then able to explain them in understandable terms.  Would certainly recommend his services to anyone who wanted to understand more on coaching/mentoring or even more on the psychology of management.\
\
the course was well managed and organised\
Brian was very helpful and I have been able to apply specific things we discussed to my role already.\
\
\
Margaret made the course really enjoyable and I have come out of it with a great understanding. \
The course material was excellent and Duncan was very well prepared and was able to answer all my questions and offer insight on some matters that I raised.\
Some warning beforehand that it would be only myself and the trainer would have been helpful, mainly as the emails I received before made me expect that there would be a group of people for the training so I wasn't expecting it to be that intense being 1 on 1\
\
\
\
\
Worthwhile. Course was pitched at the right level.\
\
see above likes/dislikes comment\
Felt it was too general - to share best practice with colleagues would have been more beneficial\
All the Cosensa staff I've dealt with have been really helpful and supportive. The booking was complex because of administration on my organization's side but this was all dealt with courtesy, good humor and a can-do helpful attitude.  The facilities were perfect for the type of training and the lunch at Sainsbury's was very nice.\
Loved the course it was very engaging. Delivered well by the trainer. Just wish we had more time. There seemed to be a lot of content we were unable to cover or just skimmed over due to time.\
I felt I benefited more from the assertiveness course.  The Negotiation course I felt I covered most of this in my day to day to role\
\
Needed more paper to write on (this may have been the hotels fault), print outs of the presentation would have been helpful. The exercises we were given were good, not over-simplified. They were challenging enough without making the content confusing.\
\
As a new employee, I felt pleased that I was able to keep up with the first day of training, however in retrospect that could mean the first day wasn't challenging enough.  I did find the second day a lot more challenging.\
Beneficial day overall\
I think engagement before the training session in terms of what everyone wants to get out of it is really important so that the trainer understands how the core principles of the training work within our organisation. Only then can the trainer bring this understanding out in the training session and provide relevant feedback.\
There was a good balance of working with people outside your team and also working as a team. There were challenges (which there should be). I believe the proof of the success, as with any training, is being able to make changes and implement learnings into our everyday working lives. Fingers crossed! \
The trainer should make a greater effort to include all members of the team. On occasion the conversation was driven by a small number of members.\
The food provided was of excellent standard. I am a vegetarian and I was very well catered for.\
good course really enjoyed it and learned a lot.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
great delivery maintaining interest across the day  one suggestion for improvement - when reviewing the 4 communication styles aggressive, submissive, P/A, assertive - there was a very detailed slide which was very useful but we just talked through the content - demonstrations could be more engaging.\
We were told the course would start at 9 but on arrival at the venue we were told it started at 10. Also, we finished at lunchtime on the second day so it wasn't really a 2 day course.\
The course overall was excellent and the trainer was very engaging. It was very interesting to be able to assess yourself and stand back and assess a situation. I feel I have been better equipped to handle difficult situations where I need to say no and be firm.\
lunch was nice\
The content was very good, but as mentioned eralier the exercises neeeded more role play to drive home the key message of the course.\
\
\
\
I believe the trainer was very good at presenting the course materials she had and kept everyone engaged. I just feel it could have been more tailored to Cooneen and the different daily situations we find ourselves in, that need us as individuals to be more assertive instead of becoming submissive and therefore not getting the outcome that is needed for us as an individual or the company.\
The lunches were brilliant and a very good choices. Thank you very much \
Overall, a very informative and interesting course. I learned a lot and will be applying much of what I learned to my work. The trainer was friendly and good natured.\
The trainer was good and tried to be interactive. The main problem was the materials of the course that in my opinion was too basic and not in lign. It was also a lot of presentation through Powerpoint which doesn't necessarily create debates and discussion with the group to be able to share best practices and knowledge. \
There was some pre-reading for the course but I never received it. It would have been interesting to go through this. There were extra documents at the end that you could take away for further reading but there was not enough for everyone. \
\
\
I expected to come away with tools to enable me to deal with certain circumstances and tools that would benefit me when interacting with customers where I need to be assertive. I dont feel that I have been equipped with additional tools.\
great course and Vidette was and excellent trainer\
The course covered the theory & different behavioural aspects of assertiveness. To make it more applicable & easier to apply in an everyday context, some real life case studies from our roles could have been used as examples and discussed in detail. Also examples on how to deal with colleagues/clients who are not assertive themselves (eg. aggressive or passive aggressive), \
\
The only downside as expressed earlier I thought there would be more risk assessment part of the training.  I liked the how the Instructor part of the course was taught.  There was  a few issue with the projector \
Brian is a superb trainer, so knowledgeable, and adapted the material for my personal requirements.  I was very hesitant about taking up my new position as I have never done field sales before but I feel more confident, able and willing to do this job now.  With the new techniques I have learned and practice, my confidence can only grow. \
Excellent content.  Trainer had great active listening skills and had put the course together very well from the brief that had been given.  \
\
\
Margaret was brilliant! \
\
\
N/A\
\
\
\
\
\
I thoroughly enjoyed the day, Margaret has a great delivery style, her credibility assuring me that I would take away some new skills. I would wholeheartedly recommend this course and Margaret should be top of the list as the facilitator to send.  I'm still not sure I can get my head round the sentence.... None of the employees was hurt.! Thanks :)\
Good general pack, and lots of additional helpful materials\
\
Callum made it relevant to each of our departments.\
\
\
Please could you send notes for the course by email.\
The only thing I would change is that staff are asked to provide examples of actual spreadsheets they work with.  Obviously with sensitive information removed\
\
Guidance notes would be great to take away. I believe that these are sent afterwards.\
5 of the laptops did not work properly and I think the attendees would have benefitted from a short summary of the work we carried out on the day rather than a 145 page booklet.\
I have already recommended this course to colleagues as learners we all felt we picked up a lot during the day and any specific questions we had were answered to everyone's satisfaction.\
\
really enjoyable, booked onto advanced level\
\
Few I.T. problems but overhaul very enjojable.\
Course content was thought provoking and encouraged discussion and content was delivered in a manner where skills were practiced.\
Felt it beneficial to hear opinions of others in the same profession/role as myself. We learned from each other.\
\
Thought the training was carried out in well structured and interesting manner \
\
\
\
\
\
\
as above\
course was informative and will help me with day to day situations \
\
Good overall course, teacher was very clear and gave the points across well.\
\
Good course with good particapation from all-everbodys opinions were respected equally.\
\
\
\
This course helped me to clearly understand the difference between coaching and training, and where each should be applied. It will help me greatly in my role as a Supervisor to use and develop these coaching skills to improve and grow the capability of my shift in a positive manner where people will feel empowered and valued.\
\
It was clear Martin had a solid grounding on the course and was able to give good reasoning and detail with every step of the topic. Questions were answered in a style that was clear and to the point.\
It was a good interactive experience, carried out in a way that did not make it awkward\
Course not what I expected but as I said before helped me open up understanding of how much skills involved in training and how developing these skills will make me a better coach.\
It was very good.\
\
This was not what I expected the course to be, internally we had been offered a facilitating course, but regardless I picked up some useful techniques and ways to consider meetings so it did achieve some of what I was after.  Re the course materials, whilst they covered the topics on the agenda there were a couple of typos in the materials (paper and presentations) that could be corrected.\
\
I had been advised that this course was regarding meeting facilitation however this only made up a small part of the course. Therefore the majority of the content was not entirely relevant to my cause for attending and was not new to me.\
I found the course useful & interesting overall. As project managers we run meetings all the time so we'd specifically asked for focus on facilitation. \
\
I thought the trainer had a great knowledge of the material and he infused his own experiences into the class. He encouraged the group to get involved and to learn for themselves.\
\
Trainer was excellent, obviously well experienced, kept all participants involved and made sure we understood before moving on. Had some fun and learned some new techniques/methods.\
The lunch was very good, I went to the course thinking it would be sandwiches and crisps? I was pleasantly surprised when we were taken down to the restaurant and could choose off the menu.\
This was my first time attending a First Aid course. I found it interesting & feel confident that I could assist in any of the topics/scenarios covered.\
Nicola made you feel very welcome\
Lunch was very nice and served in a lovely setting.\
N/A\
\
\
\
The course contents covered everything I wanted to know and more and the trainer was excellent \
\
\
The trainer was very good and covering everything and we also got a chance to ask questions. \
Louise was great, she was very experienced and was very engaging which made the course as comfortable and relaxed as possible.\
\
Tim presented the course in a clear but relaxed manner. He was very approachable and encouraged  all to participate in the workshops and discussions. \
Course delivered in a great way and made it possible to maintain my interest through what could have been quite a 'dry' course.\
\
\
\
A fantastic trainer who clearly listened and tailored his advice accordingly.   Left the course with a real 'feel good' factor!\
\
The training overall was really helpful and provided me with the skills I was looking for. The only negative for me was the role play, it just felt awkward at times and didn't help me practice the skills properly.\
I thought the training course was very well organised and I was pleased with the overall training and outcome.\
\
As above, a bit thin on the ground although the trainer was very good and clearly knowledgeable.\
\
I would just like to Thank Vidette for all her hard work and effort , she made everything so understanding and I have took a lot back to my work place from being on the course.. I have learned a different view on how to deal with customers and overall how to do my job and feel comfortable doing my job so once again thanks ..  \
\
The training materials arrived whilst I was in my course so I didn't get to use them.  Luckily Kelvin had brought some print outs with him.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Really good course, well structured and i'm still thinking about it several days later.\
\
\
\
Location was fantastic as close to the train station. I thought the trainer was superb.\
\
my only criticism of the course is about the handouts. some of the slides were a bit small and hard to read. \
Lunch was a good quality, however the facility may need expansion to cope if more companies inhabit the office space. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
Great choice of food.  Tea, Coffee and biscuits provided througout the day.  Modern tranining facilities.\
\
There was a lot of information and I understand that there are changes in GDPR.  We can never be too cautious in relation to protecting personal data and sensitive information.  However I do feel that the training was almost trying to scare us.  Another colleague has recently attending training with Volunteer Now in relation to GDPR and some of the information given from both organisations is conflicting, ie do we need a Data Protection Officer.  We are a small organisation and have to do our very best, but we are also limited in our resources.\
I thought the course was better than other project management courses I have been on, mostly due to the knowledge and experiences of Brian and also how the course was tailored to everyone's needs and not just running through a PowerPoint to get all areas covered.  \
\
\
\
\
As above. No mention of contracts/consent etc. A lot of scare tactics. Contradicted other training i\'82\'c4\'f4ve been too - don\'82\'c4\'f4t know who to believe. No idea what the role of the facilitator was - he opened the door when people were locked out - that seemed to be it.\
Would have liked much more specific training related to Home Start rather than a blanket 'your Policies are not fit for purpose'.  Why are they not fit for purpose? And how can we improve them?\
Trainer knowledgeable but I felt he was trying to frighten us! Not as specific to our organisation as I would\'82\'c4\'f4ve liked. A step by step guide to what we need to do would have been better.\
No course materials have been received to date.\
Coffee and quality biscuits were available most of the day - very good. The lunch was OK; sandwiches and orange juice.\
\
No on street free parking as described in prior course communications. Course materials were inadequate - we were only given a handout of powerpoint presentation, nothing else, no info or guidlines.\
Very happy with booking process, facilities and particularly nice lunch. I would have expected much more in the way of handouts and take-home materials/references for the cost of the course. As with all such training there is such a wealth of information that delegates cannot hope to note everything, and more comprehensive reading material would have been very welcome.\
\
\
Room on second day was a bit claustrophobic but all in all facilities, instructor and material as well as the food were first class. \
The communication prior to the course was excellent. \
\
In general I really enjoyed the course and found it very useful. Timing was perfect as I had a presentation to do 2 days after. I had transitions, things embedded etc and I was no longer scared to use it . \
\
\
Facilities were ideal for the number of delegates, felt like a classroom workshop rather than a course, so perfect size.  Lunch was very poor, however that would not normally be an issue for me personally, but feedback is important, it was poor. \
\
Course was excellent and everything I expected it to be. The lunch provided was excellent.\
\
Warm food would have been better but the sandwiches where good\
\
\
Lunch was very limited I didn't actually eat anything except for a 1/4 of a sandwich. \
\
The traybakes at the beginning of the course were excellent.  The lunch wasnt great as there was only sandwiches I dont eat bread so i didnt have a lunch.  Would be great if you had a choice i.e. soup/ stews etc.\
\
Margaret ran the course well and clearly was very familiar with the subject matter. She was able to provide advice and techniques which I am sure will be helpful going forward. The actually material was a little 'light' but maybe necessary for only a one day course. The main thing that let the experience down was the fact there was only one other delegate on the course, who was very new to the role. I found this very limiting as there was no one to learn from or share ideas with. I believe more knowledge and insight would have been gained if more attendees were on the course to take part in the case studies and activities. \
\
\
Would have preferred more time on plain English as this section of the course was delivered at a very quick pace.  \
Good folder of handouts to take away and refer back too.\
The course has made me refocus and certainly readopt and apply proof reading skills\
\
Great course and was suitable for everyone - we all had different experience, weak areas etc. and I think everyone will have got something from the course. \
\
\
\
\
I thoroughly enjoyed this training and benefited from the course content.  I am happy there are materials that I can refer too as there was a lot on the day to try and remember (with my notes being inadequate when I looked back at them).  I will use the techniques in my day to day role and know it will assist me greatly. \
\
Freshly prepared and suited my dietary needs. \
If i am looking for training for myself or my going forward I would look at Cosensa website to check their offerings.  \
Lunch was absolutely fine, my allergy was dealt with perfectly (I often have problems) cheers!\
A very informative and enjoyable course, a venue closer to the North East of England would have been better for me.\
Brian was brilliant.  He answered questions very well, gave examples that were practical and everyone could relate to.  He made the training enjoyable by involving everyone.\
Training was great, very informative.  Good facilities, very modern.  Great food.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
LUNCH WAS DELICIOUS. LOVELY MENU.\
\
\
\
\
\
Tailoring it to architectural presentations would be helpful because architects use a lot of graphics for presentations \
\
\
As above...more of a 'workshop' would have been beneficial \
The training was well delivered in by Mr Grimshaw. He was very well equipped and delivered the training at a level to suit all in the room.\
\
A 1 hour time slot felt quite short for the material to be covered in detail.\
\
The course and trainer were great, but the course content I received beforehand contained a more extensive list of content, but there was insufficient time to cover all the topics listed. Would have liked to cover more content, possibly over 2 days., otherwise everything else was great.   \
No Vegan choice on the Menu and a little more choice for Vegetarians would be lovely\
\
n/a\
The lunch was a pear salad and was delicious.\
There was some good and useful things I learned, particularly about listening skills and creating a win-win situation when you are faced with confrontations however there were quite a few aspects/advise I strongly disagreed with and am very concerned that people are being advised to do. In particular, the advice of 'coming down to their level' when speaking to clients/customers and changing how you speak to match them ( it was suggested to us if someone speaks to you in broad Glasgwegian to speak back in this manner).  This goes against everything I have ever been taught by my parents, in education and in the Stephen Covey 7 Habits book, in which the trainer themselves even referred to, in terms of personal integratory and being true to yourself.  Additionally, it is highly offensive to those you are communicating with and could aggravate a situation. I am gravely concerned at this advice being given.  I have worked in a variety of situations, areas, and demographics and cannot condone this and come from this at a hands-on experience level to working in deprived areas all over the UK and young offenders units.  The best advice I have received 'be yourself and never ever patronise'.   There had been a communication issue regarding the set up of a TV for the delivery of the presentation resulting in it not being set up.  This was the fault/error of our organisation and we all in the room accepted that.   The trainer used this as an example of how communication had fallen down and how the situation could have been dealt with better. This is all fair and sound to do, once maybe twice. However to go on and on about it for 3 hours became ridiculous.  I counted 5 times it was brought up and used. The trainer described himself as being a 'nippy wee sweetie'.  I am afraid they revealed this side of them on this occasion. \
The trainer could have done better by listening and understanding questions posed by the group in order to answer more satisfactorily. Also, there was a time in which I asked the trainer to extrapolate the topic by looking at how a skill may be applied in a real example at work. The trainer gave us an answer but we, the training group, did not feel that this was appropriate for our workplace. We essentially disagreed with the answer she gave us, and we said so, but the trainer didn't understand what we were saying and didn't try to explain or explore this in order to reach a better conclusion to the question. Also i found the trainer gave too many examples of her own personal experiences and successes, which weren't always useful to the topic. The examples she used could have been more constructive and inclusive. I would have preferred that the trainer was more focused in her exploration of each topic so that the time could have been used more effectively. \
There was a comment made by the trainer regarding situations where you are communicating with someone from an area of deprivation. 'Sometimes you just have to get down to there level'. I feel that this was terrible advice but also a classist comment to make.\
\
There was one comment made towards the end of the course which I found a bit strange and which I disagreed with. It look me a while to process and we were short of time so I didn't question it at the time (I wish I had). It was about bringing yourself down to the level of the person you are speaking to. While I understand the point Mary was making, I thought the choice of example was unfortunate as made comment on peoples social background and therefore how they would speak/understand information. I found this stereotyping inappropriate to the training and in hindsight quite offensive on a personal level. I don't doubt this wasn't the intended affect, but worth consideration for future training events as could be perceived as very judgmental. Otherwise I really enjoyed the examples she gave to illustrate her point so this one really stuck out for me, not in a good way.\
Beef stew....yum!\
John was very honest. The training was tailored around my needs. Thanks \
\
\
\
Very enjoyable and insightful\
\
\
\
\
\
I\
Course content was good but we have not received the 'materials' i.e. the course booklet / further information.\
\
\
Overall a good experience, staff and tutors are very pleasant. \
Everything was perfect and was 100% except for the lunch. All there was for lunch was a bowl of tomato soup and bread roll. Having had time for no breakfast that morning i was starving in the afternoon even after the bowl of soup and bread roll. Felt the lunch while it was tasty could have been more substantial.\
\
\
\
I felt there was a lot of wasted time and a lot of time spent discussing time management and satisfaction of home life and not enough time focusing on how to better manage your time and  completion of tasks required at work.  Overall I felt the course could have been covered in 1/2 a day not a full day.\
\
\
I think the booking process could be smoother as I'd booked to go on this course 6 months ago and after 2 cancellations had to travel to Newcastle (instead of Leeds where it had initially been booked for). However Cosensa assisted with my travel by deducting the cost of the train ticket from the course fee so well done to them for that.\
\
\
N/A\
\
No\
I learned very little that I feel I can apply in practice. The course was largely made up of the trainer reading the slides aloud.  Course materials consisted of a powerpoint presentation that was at best difficult to read, and often completely illegible due to text size, colour choices and the size of the screen. This was ironic given the subject matter!  We were given hard copies of the presentation, which are also illegible in parts.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Paul was great, he made me feel very comfortable talking about issues I find hard to deal with in the work place. \
\
Good training course in excellent facilities, trainer and Cosensa staff were very welcoming and knowledgeable. Lunch was great as always.\
\
I didn't book the course so cannot rate this part.\
\
\
Interactive course, opened my mind to minute taking, overall good course for beginners \
\
The trainer was very informative and had lots of examples of good and bad DSE\
The course was pitched correctly for our knowledge levels and the course booklet is great to refer back to if needed in the future. \
\
Lunch was a small number of sandwiches. We chose to head out to the nearby Subway.\
\
\
\
Very comprehensive cover of the regulations and the impact on our organisation.  \
\
\
\
I have gained a lot of valuable knowledge that I can take back into my business and apply. \
nil\
Lunch was OK - on the sandwich front they should make it clear that if you want chicken and mayonnaise you also get this with salad in the sandwich, which some people may not like.\
\
All good, will definitely be returning.\
The lunches were tasty and after the 1st day an issue with whether heated food was OK or not was sorted out. The soup was delicious!!\
\
Carrie was a fantastic trainer and feedback from all of our group was great overall\
Thought the course covered everything at the right pace\
This course has given me the confidence to deal with people in such a manner that the desired outcomes can be achieved \
I would highly recommend your company to other people. The course although I had my own issues with the exam was brilliant from start to finish, Kristian is a top class trainer and the attention we received from Richard and his staff was second to none.\
\
\
Restrictions on hot food by the venue were disappointing but the food provided was very good.\
Hand out file could be improved by way of dividers & index\
The course was excellent and Kristian was a very dedicated and knowledgeable trainer who made the course very interesting.\
\
It is all too easy not to appreciate the GDPR complexities going forward and this was well covered by Brian\
Brian was very engaging and was good at answering any questions we had on GDPR.\
\
Very informative and engaging. \
\
The lunch served was extremely tasty, a lot of effort was put into the process and I thoroughly enjoyed it.\
I really enjoyed the course and would definitely recommend it to others.  \
-\
\
I thought the one to one format helped me learn more. It gave the course a more focused feel. The trainer showed me my bad habits and helped me to develop better ones. \
\
\
\
All very good, thank you\
Trainer was great and had tailored the course to our requirements \
Still have a wee bit of a job relating some of the content to the real world but I'm sure practice will help.\
\
\
\
\
\
Lunch was quite good but a shame there was no hot option.\
\
\
\
Quality of the food in my opinion was very good.I took a sandwich the first day followed by a salad the second day & both were very good.\
\
Trainer was very knowledgeable and kept everyone engaged. Very informative. Facilities and lunch were great. Would recommend course to others  \
Like to thank Toni, she was fantastic. \
SELECTION AND QUALITY WAS GOOD, LOTS OF WATER PROVIDED THROUGHOUT THE DAY TOO WHICH WAS GOOD\
Course was extremely well managed and it really did give an insight into purchasing.  It clarified some things I already knew but also gave me some new information which helped me in my wotk since.\
\
The facilities were fantastic - very comfortable and helped to make us feel at ease.\
Very well designed course.\
\
\
This course content was very relevant to my current role within the company.\
Very well run course - Margaret was very knowledgeable and answered all queries with no problem\
Nice food, very well organised, great facilities. \
Less theory and more practical tips would be useful. An overview of IT packages which are useful to PAs would be welcome.\
\
Excellent\
\
\
A really useful and well-run training course - thank you!\
A thoroughly enjoyable and useful course\
Callum Stevenson was really good as a trainer and the group was kept small.  We got plenty breaks which help to concentrate.  The overall facilities where excellent and easy to find.  Everything on the course was covered. \
\
Great venue and trainer. I will use Cosensa again and have recommended you to others in the industry. Very relaxed layout and facilities/lunch excelled standards.  Congratulations to all your team.\
Acceptable room for the two candidates, though it was stuffy. Lunch just passable.\
\
I think it would have been useful to have the course materials on the day.  I have not had a chance to see the course materials yet so have not commented on their usefulness.  The content of the course was very good.\
\
I don't think we received the correct training course. Having looked at the description of what we should have covered on the intermediate course we didn't cover - Advanced Formatting, cell and range names, web and internet features. advanced charting, some of the documenting and auditing or templates and settings.  Elements from the description for the Introduction course were covered like conditional formatting, printing and entering/editing formulas.  \
I didn't book myself on the course it was done through our Training Centre, so was unable to give it a rating.\
I would highly recommend your course to others as it was presented in an easily understandable way. \
\
\
\
helped to better plan a project before starting instead of planning while working on the project. \
Very thorough and extensive materials to accompany the sessions, and helpful tips for how to practise and build your skills \
\
As there were only two of us, it was very informal. We were able to ask questions about our particular minute taking so it was more related to what we are doing in our current role and this I found priceless. We also looked a minutes taken for previous meetings and used these to understand how to improve our minute-taking as we were both new to this.\
Food was wonderful, great premises. Perfect environment for learning.\
Lunch was enjoyable.\
\
\
The lunch was okay but the portion size was very small.\
\
\
Particularly enjoyed Management v Leadership\
The Idea Factory is still a very new building in a new complex so it felt that we were out on our own. The facilities there are adequate but I am sure they will improve in time.\
Margaret was great. Very approachable and happy to answer every question. Extremely friendly.\
Room was a bit too warm. No hot food available for lunch, but salad was very tasty.\
I would like to thank Brian for being a fantastic trainer and that I did learn a lot about minute taking from his course.    \
Excellent course.\
\
\
Course content, facilities and communication were all very good. \
\
Margaret is a fantastic trainer - some light humour and relaxed atmosphere really suits our organisation.\
A little quick at times which made it a hard to follow and we finished early so we would have had the time to take it a little slower.\
I asked for Louise to look into an excel query which she did do on her lunch time, but said I would need to go on the advance course, instead of just telling me how to do the text formatting. \
Best lunch on a training course ever. the facilities where great and the staff in the place we had training couldnt do enough for you. Fantastic venue.\
lunch was great\
\
Lunch was excellent\
Food fantastic, really fresh and plenty of choice.\
I think the trainer was really good at engaging all staff at the training course and made it fun\
\
\
Course moved a good pace, with time to absorb learning at each stage. Trainer checked understanding throughout. Location, accommodation and catering all good.\
All round just what was looking for.\
A very good starting point, which will hopefully prove to be beneficial to me & the team moving forward, if we are given the time required to make the relevant changes based on what we learned.\
\
Excellent course and trainer. \
Had a wee problem parking but otherwise all excellent!!\
I was very impressed with the bright and welcoming feel of the new premises. It had a very relaxed atmosphere and all staff were extremely helpful and friendly.\
\
\
A summarised slide of the main changes between 2007 and 2015 CDM regs would have been useful\
\
\
Lovely midmorning snack and lunch provided.  Tea and Coffee on tap.\
Content would need to be tailored to our GMP for other groups that are not familiar with the topic and their duties.\
An interesting training session on an important and crucial topic. It has provided a very good insight on what needs to be done by governing bodies of organisations in order to effectively manage their health and safety duties.\
Excellent trainer however setting early finish expectations at the start did not necessarily set the right tone for the participants. It came over as if you keep your questions to a minimum we will finish early therefore could result in a mind set of 'if you ask too many questions you will be holding everyone up'\
Slides were good. Would perhaps like a little more detail on best practice examples for what should be included in a project's Pre Construction Information and its Construction Phase (Health and Safety) Plan.\
\
The room was tiny and felt a bit cramped.  The catering was also left unrefreshed until the venue was reminded that this had been requested. \
Unfortunately, despite talks with someone beforehand, there was no gluten or dairy free lunch provided so I had to look for a place nearby to cater.  We were also expecting regular top ups of coffee and tea at 10am and 3pm and had to keep phoning Reception who didn't seem bothered about it.  The room was extremely small.\
\
\
The course trainer was very informative and could relate any subject or topic to a 'real life' example which always benefits the course and subject understanding. \
The course is very generic. It could have been improved by making it more tailored to what is done at Ineos Grangemouth\
\
\
Excellent, well presented course with relevant content\
\
Lunch is good but it should have more options. Other drinks can be offered next time\
Really enjoyed the session.  Our discussions turned into learning relevant to our Marketing department/Company.  Didn't realise how much learning I had undertaken until I re-listened to our Quarterly Marketing call which then made much more sense!\
Trainer very entertaining and engaging. Anyone who has not had a course like this would really benefit and a useful refresher for those who have. An enjoyable session thanks.\
\
Excellent course content and relevancy for all aspects of work and personal relationships\
I was not involved in the booking process.  We were served sandwiches for lunch which were very good.  A hot food option would have been better.\
\
We were very well catered to with regards to break times. Great service all round.\
Very good event. thank you \
\
\
No sugar for coffee. Salad was lovely, could of ate more. Great quality all the same.\
\
\
\
\
Really useful, and a good size group for engaged training. Will be really good to roll out to other members of the team to boost their confidence in communicating with customers. \
\
The training covered a wide range of areas and was focussed on our company due to us being the only delegates on the course. This was good for asking tailored questions and having examples based on our experiences but as the course was reduced to one day instead of the original two I'm not sure if we maybe missed out on more practical activities.\
\
Very good course, although the trainer was ill-infomed at the start of the day of who exactly we were.\
\
\
The Course was excellent and Margaret did an excellent job with her good background knowledge and experience. \
\
\
Lunch was great :-) \
\
The content was well prepared and selected and the information received as well as the way it was delivered to us was from a very practical approach which makes this training very valuable. However a small improvement point, that came out at the end of the training is regarding the handouts which were give to us at every step of the training. It would be much better if they were already present in the folder we receive in the beginning, having numbers or clear ways to locate them in the folder. This would help trainees a lot. \
All in all, good course and I came away with some things I didn't know or hadn't considered, therefore a worthwhile day. Our trainer was very knowledgeable and engaging and obviously likes her job!\
I have received an adequate knowledge about competencies with a nicely done notes,guideline. Thank you! Now I feel I am a bit more confident in this matter.\
\
Suggestion to the materials given to participants: please consider adding numbers under the handouts so that trainer can refer to specific pages and trainees can find the content faster.\
-\
\
From the time of booking the course I have received numerous emails for courses which have no significance to me. \
Excellent. Would highly recommend and use again.\
\
\
Would have liked a more in-depth course, perhaps with a practical element. Not sure if this is a 'fault' at our end. For example the BIFM DSE course runs for two days.\
none.\
The way the training was delivered was refreshing, in that he used our own examples as well as SSE examples he\'82\'c4\'f4d taken and pre-prepared from our webpage and news magazine.  This made the learning relevant and understandable \
\
\
I booked my hotel where I was lead to believe the course was being held as all previous communications had mentioned the Holiday Inn at Waterloo Square but when the confirmation came through it strayed that the course was being held elsewhere. I was a little frustrated this change hadn't been communicated.\
The date was moved from 16th to 20th which wasn't so much of a problem as communicated well and staff very friendly and helpful though because of this there were quite a few mistakes made e.g. sending confirmations over for wrong dates, sending questions over twice and then having to remind to answer my questions in time for the day itself. invoice details incorrect etc.  I see that the course end date on this form says 16th but it was 20th too. Not overly concerned personally  but you need to get this right to be as professional as you can be and make the experience as issue free as possible. \
\
excellent :)\
I would highly recommend the course to everyone using Excel Louise gave us and overview of the basics and then gave useful and quick tips with I can use everyday \
Louise Friel, the instructor, was an absolute pleasure to listen to, she took the time to explain things indepth and was an extremely good teacher. I would certainly be interested in attending the advanced course (especially if I had the same instructor).\
\
\
\
I found the day to be rather useful and definitely relevant to my current role.  It also gives me confidence going forward in boosting my communication skills in any future role.\
\
\
\
\
\
Just a few bits we went over had been covered in the intermediate course.\
I enjoyed this course and learned a lot.  My prior experience and knowledge of Powerpoint was very limited having being self-taught so it was great to learn all the things that can be done!  \
It would have been good to understand some more of the content agenda prior to the session.   Room and lunch was sorted by me\
The lunch and refreshments were brilliant.\
\
I was not my-self who booked the course hence why these questions haven't been answered. \
\
Trainer, venue excellent\
\
\
\
Very useful and interesting material covered. Smart not to give notes at the start of the training sessions instead at the end. Enjoyed presenting to the group and getting feedback both positive and constructive.\
Trainer dealt with first aid incident very well and kept training course on track. Clearly communicated and shared ideas and processes with the group. \
Mary is a very professional and friendly trainer. I was very impressed at her working style and knowledge conveyed during this session. \
\
very nice. \
We were a small group (6) which was good.  The fact that there were 3 of us from the one organisation I found a bit inhibiting, I would probably have asked more specific questions if there had been no-one there who knew my team (however the trainer did point out to us all that anything that was said should be treated as confidential).\
\
One aspect I found less useful what the feedback session.  I felt uncomfortable writing down comments regarding things that a person could do differently (better), and having those comments passed around the whole team to read.  I would have preferred to have time with each team member to say these things privately and in person.  Particularly where there is a line management relationship, this public and written down method with a follow up meeting at some later and unspecified date felt little awkward.\
\
\
Great course and a lot to remember.  Callum was a great trainer.  My only negative would be that parking was difficult/expensive.\
\
\
Can't sing the praises of Callum highly enough.  Excellent delivery, clear, concise and perfectly-paced.\
\
\
\
\
Bearing in mind that this course was pulled together at very short notice Mary did a great job.\
\
Very good but I would have like more opportunity to test out my coaching skills. I intend to use this newfound skill immediately with my colleagues. \
More practise sessions would be useful. \
\
Room temperature was significantly low.  Not having a break-out space to have a lunch was unusual.  Facilities overall were disappointing.\
All good.\
\
\
No tea/coffee or water provided for lunch? \
Food was very acceptable but the service could have been better\
facilities were very low grade - toilets were even uncleaned  room was far too small for number of people - very squashed - no space the laptops were old & dirty & we had one charger between 2 of us which we had to continuously swap after each laptop charged 3% as neither laptop charged above 7-10% louise was very good this is nothing against her \
The training room on day one was ice cold with no heating. Everyone complained about this. Day two we changed room and this was much more suitable.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The room was quiet cold need more heaters but otherwise satisfied.\
Aside from catering the course was superb and the trainer was superb\
\
I really enjoyed the course on Friday 27th January 16. Callum was very helpful, established what we were looking for at the start of the day and ensured he covered everything we wanted. He encouraged interaction between all of the students where I was able to gain some handy tips from other users. Although I have a good understanding of Excel, I feel that the course has filled in some gaps and expanded on my knowledge, I now feel more confident in particular around formulae.\
Not yet received the course materials and so difficult to comment.\
I feel I have benefited from this course which was run in a clear and informative manner.  I look forward to recieving the literature relevant to the course, as advised on Friday.\
\
\
\
The company`s finance director was involved with the booking process, I can not comment on it I am afraid. \
Booking Process is N/A as I did not book the course myself Lunch was not served so again, N/A\
Brian was very knowledgeable on the subject with a good mixture of common sense. However, I would have liked a risk assessment.\
We would like to see Brian again for further training\
\
Paul was an excellent trainer and new the subject matter very well. The details of his experiences were comforting to know that presentation skills can be developed. Using examples of individuals in news headlines made it easier to understand certain presentation styles.  The facilities were ok, but the room was cold for most of the morning but a good size for the number on the course.  With the booking process we had some difficulty getting the discount for multiple attendees, but the team were very helpful any time I got in contact.\
Really enjoyable day, was a great introduction to management. Brian was very knowledgeable and I would recommend to others. \
\
\
\
\
n/a\
\
\
\
On a scale of 1 to 10, I would give a 9. I liked that you were able to come to my work place and taylor made the course to my specifics.\
Made me think of how to approach 'marketing' with a few new ideas.\
The course material seemed to be odds and sods from other courses that hadn't really been prepared in advance of this course.\
Mary is an exceptional trainer with so much knowledge and experience.  I appreciated her taking the time to find out what I needed from the course and then tailoring it to suit my needs.  The content and delivery was outstanding and I now feel a lot more confident with plenty of new ideas and techniques to put in to practice.\
\
\
\
\
Overall I found the course very informative without being too deep. Course content I felt was just right for me. Trainer was very engaging.\
\
The only downside to the venue and facilities was the heating within the training room / building\
Some grammatical errors in the presentation in relation to scearios. Use of a previous presentations notes. LSU. Lunch was very basic. Not enough for 4.\
I enjoyed the course. Pauls informal, honest and modern approach made it interesting and i felt comfortable to engage and raise any queries.\
\
\
\
Food great - although the kitchen is a bit cold!!\
\
\
Some slides within the presentation were not covered during the training but the reason for this was not explained. Trainer showed genuine understanding of the organisation and approached conflict resolution well.\
\
Communication was excellent throughout.  Very relevent materials. The materials were very in depth. I was relieved not to go through all written material in the manual.  Brian was an outstanding trainer/ mentor and I hope our paths cross again in the future.  I didn't give the facilities 5 stars as the data projector on day 2 was extremely noisy and needed to be drop kicked out of the room! All other facilities were great! \
\
\
\
Booklet was a waste of resources and wasn't used once during the training, nor has it been used afterwards. I would recommend the course to inexperienced sales advisors, retail workers, people in customer facing roles etc, as I do believe that it is useful, but not for our own job and not for anyone who has had any previous experience working with the public, as it is largely all common sense. \
The lunch was lovely.\
\
\
The folder and printed out materials were a waste of the earths resources. There were no elements of the training which required note taking, or any content which was worth reflection afterwards. Therefore, handing out folders and printed notes is perhaps unnecessary.  \
\
We had soup and sandwiches for lunch, and I liked that it was not too much, as so often on these types of things you are served a huge meal which makes you sleepy for the rest of the afternoon! I also very much enjoyed the scones with clotted cream at the tea break.   I thought that the training centre was easy to get to, and the room was very nice, with plenty natural light. \
The training didn't seem to incorporate what HES advisors actually do on a day to day basis. \
\
\
\
\
The book handed out was completely pointless\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
A really worthwhile and beneficial course.  The trainer was extremely knowledgeable in this subject and willingly shared/covered practical step-by-step approaches, tools, tips and techniques with the group.  I asked lots of questions and these were dealt with in a really helpful and constructive way.  Having attended this training, I feel much more confident and equipped to progress the project I have been given to manage.   \
Overall I wasn't that impressed with the course. Some of the material handed out was not correctly formatted and the trainer had to provide copies of his material so it made sense. The trainer was a very nice guy although he was loaded with a cold and I felt this took his attention away somewhat. He was nice but I don't feel he went into the details as much as he could have. I feel slides were just quickly skimmed over and I don't feel I learned anything outstanding. Most of it seemed very logical and would be how I would approach a task normally. The trainer told a lot of stories and although loosely relevant I'm not sure they contributed much to the experience.   This was supposed to be a 2 day course originally and it was shortened to 1 day as there were only 2 delegates attending. I don't see how this could have been delivered over 2 days unless the details was fully gone into as if we had done that on the day rather than skimming and talking a lot it could probably have been delivered in half a day. I feel the fee does not reflect the time (being reduced to 1 day) or the experience. I would have expected a discount with the reduction in days.  I have a slightly better thought process to project management but by no means was wowed by the course and don't feel I took a huge amount of knowledge away from it.\
The trainer was pleasant the content covered some of the basics of project management, however I was hoping for more detail on dealing with project management issues and problems and how to resolve them. The course really focussed on the introductory aspects of project management. Perhaps if the course had lasted two days then these would have been covered. As a result I left the course feeling a little short changed although I had picked up a couple of new project planning techniques. I think my company have grounds for a partial refund given the course was cut by one day. \
\
At the end of the first day was a bit confused about the linear steps of process. Course slides helped as the notes were jumping about a bit and did not follow the presentation.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
i would have no hesitation in recomending the course, Also peter was fantastic \
A sheet providing list of all the shortcuts would be very useful for people who are not used to using shortcut keys when working in Word.\
Course content was good and varied. There was also opportunities to cover other material that was specifically asked about. \
\
\
Brian was very knowledgeable and pushed us to really think about the work we are involved in.  What you need a good trainer to do!  Will definitely be able to apply the learning back in the workplace.  \
Good to excellent\
Fantastic trainer, really made the course.  Irene was totally focussed on the learners and made sure no one was left behind while no one was bored either.  Very knowledgable, friendly and proffessional.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
It was a good training course that - for me personally - filled in some gaps in my knowledge of excel or showed more efficient ways of solving problems.\
\
the room was not ready for us to start training which was an unnecessary delay of waiting in reception. \
would like to help Brian and Richard for all their hard work in the training also the catering staff \
Great Course, looking forward to move on to the next step\
\
\
\
\
\
Margaret was exceptionally knowledgeable. Very easy to ask questions and explained things clearly.\
Very enjoyable and interesting day, with some good pointers for our issues that we will be raising internally at due point.\
\
Overall a great experince. I feel that i have been given some really useful tools that will help with my job,\
\
\
\
\
\
\
A course of such high standard and excellent quality. One i would highly recommend to anyone.\
Overall an excellent course, would definitely recommend to anyone.\
Very enjoyable course, with a lot of good points.\
\
The room was very small and too warm by the afternoon. The chairs were also very slippery! I know there were staff changes so hiccups are to be expected but it would have been smoother if we had been told to bring a prepared presentation as the trainer expected. Joining instructions were not sent to me personally.\
\
The training was excellent and now have the confidence of delivering any presentation or training  and preparing and dealing with difficult people \
\
Very good course which met my needs\
The toilets in the facility weren't clean and very grotty. \
Great course, feel like i learned alot and hopefully can go on and use it. Will be recommending that all managers in my company take the course \
A very interesting and helpful course that I would recommend to others in roles that would benefit from it.\
I was given wrong information on the location of the training which caused a lot of frustration and anxiety and took up a lot of time.  Lack of car parking facilities.  Course content and trainer excellent\
\
\
Enjoyed the course trainer listened to all questions and showed things in an understanding way \
\
\
\
\
\
\
Facility wise, coarse is in a good location and I felt from start to finish that I was well looked after. \
it was an ok training session, the practical aspect was good and good practice. I think there could be more content to actually teach you what you should be doing, I feel we were practicing to gain confidence but not learning many new skills/tactics.\
well delivered training course for all levels of excel users\
\
The course was very good covering many relevant topics and the pdf Excel 2010 Intermediate document received is very useful.\
Although I appreciate that the invoices get automatically generated on a certain date this makes it hard to claim back expenses which are sitting on my credit card. Communication more in advance that it was just the 2 of us would have been better.\
Excellent training course and well delivered\
\
Very well organised - flexible but still well-timed. Scored only 4/5 for meeting my expectations for new knowledge ONLY because I should maybe have gone to the 'advanced' course. It's hard to know what 'intermediate' means. Outline content was available in advance but, like the other mostly self-taught trainees, I could not have named the tools I'd been using.\
\
I found the course very interesting and will be putting my new skills into practice asap.\
Really enjoyed the course overall, found it very informative; Callum was very good at explaining the different functions.  Came away feeling like I learned quite a few new things.\
I possibly would have liked more information on using pivot tables.\
\
\
The course content was excellent.  It would have been useful to have a handout or workbook at the end of the course for practice purposes and consolidating the learning when you return to your own desk.  \
I enjoyed the session and learned so much about Excel that I had either forgotten or never knew.\
A very well delivered course which I would highly recommend to other excel users.\
\
\
I think this is a good starter course for people who have had little negotiating experience and are looking to increase confidence. I think maybe I should have done the next one up and spent more than one day as there is  only so much you can do in a short time. If we had not have managed to get more delegates than the original 2 then I think it would have been much less effective. I think the course should not be run with less that 4 delegates. It is the experience of others and the opportunity to negotiate with a variety of people which makes it most effective.\
\
\
\
This training was exactly what I needed. Many thanks to the presenter.\
Great course delivered by a very patient, helpful trainer.\
\
It course was well organised and planned and ran very smoothly.\
Thought the course could have been shorter...Did enjoy the course and will now hopefully use it in a working capacity..\
\
I'm already implementing coaching techniques in my 1-1s - it's been helpful for my professional development, thank you. \
\
Thanks\
The course has been thoroughly enjoyable and I recommend.\
Fab course - highly recommend for any new into management or leadership and also helpful for those more experienced managers to enable them to look at new methods and ways of effective management.\
\
\
Great content. Great tutor. Openness \
\
Crusts on the sandwiches were a little chewy.\
I felt that this course was a great start in understanding the mentoring process and establishing a relationship between mentor and mentee, I look forward to putting these skills into practice and being involved in establishing an effective mentoring culture within bf1systems.\
\
\
\
I think the content was very good and the course was engaging and interactive.\
I really enjoyed our time working with Steve over the past 10 months. He brings good energy to the course and each session is different to the last. \
Really useful course and really enjoyed it. Learnt a lot that can be applied to life both inside and outside of work. Steve was great. Friendly, professional and always available to answer any queries. \
Thank you very much!\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
course was fine. trying to demonstrate skills learned in the role play parts felt a little force and unnatural \
\
\
\
\
\
Rooms on day 1 and 3 weren't the best as there was no windows. But the tea making facilities etc were good.  Overall a very good & enjoyable course\
Windows in walls please!\
\
\
One of the best courses I have attended (and I've been to a lot!). I have already used the coaching techniques in my working day. \
\
\
Overall an enjoyable course and very useful in the workplace\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Thank you for providing such a useful and engaging course.\
A very informative course, which helps give not only an understanding of the business requirements, but also helps reflect on your own personal style and handling of situations.  The personal profiling was very interesting, although not surprising helped when looking at the assignments and giving a different perspective.  I have already recommended this programme to colleagues, and have no hesitation of doing so in the future, it have been very beneficial.\
\
A well rounded-course offering a fountain of information and knowledge.\
\
\
\
I did not enjoy the course, but in saying that I recognise that the other delegates did.  For me personally, it didn't suit my style of learning.  I like to listen, take notes and take part in group discussions.  I very much dislike breaking away into small groups and some days it felt that all we were doing was breaking out.  I also struggle with all day sessions.  I feel there was certainly scope to have shorter, intensive, sessions (say 9am to 1pm).  Many of our sessions were disturbed by others having to dip out to take calls, using their laptops to answer emails and coming back late from breaks.  If the sessions were shorter, I think it would be easier for people to concentrate, knowing that they can catch up with work later in the day.  I also think that there should be a ban on those attending from having their laptops open on the table.  There were many occasions when others were clearly working.  Breaking out into small groups with one member of that group on their laptop, is both rude and disconcerting.   \
A very enjoyable course at a good pace \
\
The course was great!, one of the best ones I have done with Cake so far. The contents were relevant and it was useful to talk about ourselves as leaders and to be able to increase our self awareness on the topic. It was also really useful to talk about the difference between a manager and a leader and understand the dynamic between the two.\
\
Hope to see you again soon!\
Great course - even if you don't have the opportunity to coach anyone you feel well prepared after this course and it helps develop your listening skills. \
This programme was all that I expected it to be.  \
very informative course and a good reminder of ways to coach staff and when coaching crosses over into more mentoring.  course was ran well and ran smoothly with open communication amongst the group \
\
\
\
Other closeby meeting rooms could be heard so perhaps the soundproofing of the rooms could be improved.\
\
\
\
the course helped me massively to understand different styles/ways of management.\
Excellent course - we all really enjoyed it and got a lot from it.\
\
\
Thoroughly enjoyed it and with having a managerial role within my previous role prior to Kinnerton it is a long while since I have attended a course like this, it was great to brush up on my skills and also learn new ones.\
I really enjoyed this course, and got a lot out of it. Initially I was going to attend this course with colleagues from work, but I am actually glad that I did not, as participating in a course with wide and varied experiences was beneficial.\
I really enjoyed this course, it was particularly good that everyone around the table were from different backgrounds, which led to a wide range of experiences which could be shared and discussed. Steve was great at getting us to think for ourselves and gave little tips that I could really see myself using and have used.\
\
I feel the course was offered to such a wide selection of attendees, who were all at differing levels of presenting ability.  I found the facilitator incredibly knowledgeable, but I wanted  to pick his brains further, I wanted him to push me out of my comfort zone further, to develop my skills further.  As I said before it would have been better having the course split on level of confidence and ability.  There was lots of great information within the take away notes that I would have loved to have delved deeper into, but time didn't allow.\
\
I didn't gain the knowledge I had hoped from this course and find it hard to apply of the teachings at work.  Steve was a good trainer and very personable Good communication from Laura throughout and very helpful \
\
Previous courses in former companies tended to focus more on leadership and decision making. Cake was a refreshing way to think about the learning need (and style) of the individual being coached and not just the outcome the coach thinks or wants to reach. Taking a more back-seat role was really interesting to see you will often reach the joint desired outcome but both parties gain more satisfaction from the journey to that conclusion.\
The facilitator did a great job; it was a shame the paperwork and extranet were not up to the same standard.\
I thoroughly enjoyed the Course and feel it really developed me as a leader and manager\
I really enjoyed ILM 3, I found it beneficial being able to discuss in depth, how to problem solve, and leadership styles.\
Overall a very useful course.\
\
\
\
Unfortunately it will take much more than a 1 day course to make me a pro in presenting :0) However it has made me understand that I need to prepare and practice much more in advance of future presentations/training sessions\
\
\
None\
really good course and presented in a good way so it's not too dry! I put 3/5 for pre-course information as I'm not aware there was any but equally none way required.\
I found this a very helpful and enjoyable introduction to Coaching. I left the session with a good understanding of how it could be used in my role.\
\
I would recommend this course to anyone who has or hasn't presented before. It is useful to know how to structure a presentation and also knowing what you want to want to tell them. \
\
I have used coaching techniques in the past, for tackling a particular performance issue and I found it very useful.  I am sure there will be occasions when I use this technique in my current role.\
On the whole this was an enjoyable course that I found to be useful and well delivered. Looking forward to the next event.\
I really enjoyed the sales presentation course, and although I regularly present, already feel more confident after the training. It was good to get feedback from peers, and the facilitator so you know what you are doing that is good, and where there is room for improvement. I have come away with lots of new ideas, regarding strong openings, different styles of presenting and how to break up long presentations to keep the audience interested. Thank you Doug. \
\
\
Thanks to Doug for a great day\
\
\
\
Overall good course! Look forward to doing ILM5 if i get the chance. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent job, thank you Cake.\
I really enjoyed this course and it was very relevant to my role.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Overall I found this course really useful and I haven't been introduced to all this information before so it was interesting and has certainly made me think about how I act as a manager. I am halfway through the assignments and hope to submit them soon! \
\
\
\
The ILM level 5 has been brilliant. A great mix of theory, practical work and discussions. It was a lovely group made better by Grant being an excellent facilitator. \
Overall the course was good, very informative and I have learn't a great deal. However coursework has never been my strong point and this is the part I am struggling with. During the sessions with Steve I was more than vocal, got the group talking, understood the topics and gave credible feedback, i'm sure Steve would agree. \
I believe that this course is very good but there are too many assignments and I believe the presentation section can be improved. \
Overall really enjoyed the course and have found it very beneficial. I can already feel a change in the way I am thinking in my job, something that has also been noted by my colleagues.\
\
The course was not at all what I expected but none the less very interesting and informative. I would not say that I learned anything new but as a relative newcomer it really helped to spend time with other colleagues and learn more about how they perceive things and how they work. Understanding something of the business culture of the past also helped me to understand some aspects that I have found challenging and peculiar since I joined. I also learned more about the personality types of other members of the team. All of this helps me to modify my own style to engage my colleagues and to be more understanding of the transition that the business and some individuals are undertaking. \
I am looking forward for a follow up session, in my opinion would be really important to continue the work started in the same context.\
\
\
\
The course was a mix of external leadership theories / models / tools and internal Kinnerton documents. While I think the majority of the audience will appreciate being involved in the development of the Vision and RESPECT replacement etc. I feel like the balance was a little off and would have liked my colleagues and I to see more external content (theories, tools, models). For example, a STEEP analysis could have perhaps engaged the room to think about Kinnerton in context before thinking about the vision, it would then be a useful tool for many to take away from the room. Still enjoyed the day though, thank you.  \
I liked the clarity of what was presented and the avoidance of too much theory.\
\
Enjoyed the cross functional, interactions over the 2 days. Strategically more aligned.\
I believe my wider team were new to the course content and therefore found it to be useful. I thought the course covered elements I have covered before in previous courses and therefore the pace was not as fast as I would have personally have liked.\
\
A really ideal location. Wadenhoe will be missed as a venue.\
These courses are life-chainging and business changing\
\
be interesting to see where the next stage gets us to - certainly making me think differently \
\
I found the course more enjoyable than other courses I've been on purely by the fact it was all around Kinnerton and our roles. I liked the group interaction as opposed to having to do lots of writing. I felt engaged as I wasn't haven't to listen to someone talk all day. this was made better by the group discussions. it was nice to see the Directors get involved as normally they are on the sidelines. \
The online portal was difficult to navigate so as a consequence I missed a part of the pre- work. I am not sure I will visit another portal on a regular basis so it will be interesting to see if people are visiting it post the course.\
\
I think it was an excellent kick-off, bringing everyone onto the same page as we begin the journey.  Would have been great to spend more time on the business vision and mission and mapping how collectively we can achieve but a great start\
\
This is the start of something which Ktn has needed for some considerable time. we must ensure we do not try to get to the end, at the beginning, but be very clear the direction we are taking. \
Great interesting course. Mark was an excellent trainer. \
\
We found the questions in the booklet quite ambiguous at times. Other courses I have attended I was given a multiple choice test which I felt was better. With the book I felt like I was just copying from the manual for the most part.\
my 3 first Aiders attended the course and said it was very informative and the trainer was lovely and helpful \
\
The candidates have fed back to me that they had a really great experience over the 3 day course. Different trainer on each day with energetic personalities, knowledgeable and extremely friendly and professional! EXCELLENT!!!!\
\
was an overall good first aid training course learnt a lot when we was on the course.\
\
Excellent course for MHFA run at our site in Bridgend. Fantastic instructor and all delegates have nothing but positive feedback. Thank you, you made it easy to book, attend, and learn.\
Everyone who attended said it was one of the best first aid courses which they have been on. \
Excellent course although the course was intense and there was lot to take on board in 1 day the trainer managed to deliver the course in a relaxed manner ensuring that everyone was confident in carrying out the different procedures required whilst having 'fun'\
Very good informative course, presented well. Tutor very good  Thanks! \
Trainer was very good and made sure everyone felt relaxed and stayed focused during each day of the course. And also always checked everyone's understanding.\
The instructor really knew her stuff, very knowledgeable. Everyone enjoyed this Mental Health First Aid training, and I would recommend it to anyone.\
I am completing this for the 3 candidates who attended. All have said the venue was the only thing that they were disappointed in\
Great course overall and will be recommending it to colleagues.  Keen to understand what any follow on/refresher courses will look like. Venue not great though!\
\
\
The course was very good especially using the Defib & abdominal thrust vest which I hadn't used before.  The venue could have been bigger, cleaner & with mats but was ok.  It seems strange every time there's more than 2 Tesco people we go to a Tesco building & not an external building.  It would be good if the people arranging courses would send available courses as the norm, rather than the participant chasing, by which time availability is limited in the home town.  The first day could have been quicker & gone though the paperwork more quickly - for a lot of people, it is normal working paperwork so not a big issue.\
As we are in a retail environment it would have been beneficial to have had some training regarding child cpr etc. But overall the course was very good\
\
The feedback from the delegates was extremely positive, they all thought the trainer was very thorough and engaging.\
\
\
I have attended numerous first aid courses over the years but I found this one the most insightful. A detailed understanding of the roles of a first aider and more knowledge gained around our vital organs due to the fact that the trainer had first hand experience and provided real life scenarios!\
Everything and more than I expected - truly love training session\
\
\
\
Our client really had nothing but good things to say about the instructor and the Mental Health Champions course that Greencross Training ran for us. Thank you!\
Excellent content , very knowledgeable trainer , well delivered \
Great Trainer and course content \
\
very good feedback from all colleagues who attended the course\
A great course, as usual. Professional and knowledgeable instructor who ran an enjoyable course. Thank you.\
I was impressed with the diversity of the course and the creativity of the trainer, the last day was particularly interesting and gave us the skills to return to work with confidence to put them into practice in store.\
\
All great feedback from colleagues who were on the course, the content over the 3 days, and great feedback about the trainer.\
was a little less practical than last time I sat it. Happy to see AED training added in.\
An additional course/information relating to children specifically. Especially children/young people on autistic spectrum, children in care, children who have been subject to abuse. \
Great trainer knew his stuff and a bit more he was very patient and understood what people needed thanks very much \
\
These bespoke courses are exactly what we discussed and need for our staff. Thank you.\
Very informative. Lots of scenarios so we were given lots of different training.\
\
\
The course was informative had the trainer had a great grasp of the subject\
Really enjoyed the course, the information supplied was easy to understand and retain and training was consistently interesting.\
Fantastic trainer - really enjoyed the course and feel l learnt a lot.\
\
Ash was great made everyone feel very comfortable and his style of teaching made things very easy\
\
We found the updated information excellent for a refresh and came out of the course feeling very knowledgable\
was a really good course very informative and good pace \
Very good course, delivery was excellent by Mike\
FOUND THE COURSE TO BE VERY INFORMATIVE.IT WAS ESPECAILLY GOOD FOR SOME OF NEW TEAM MEMBERS WHO FOUND IT VERY INTERSTEING AND BUILT THERE CONFIDENCE SHOULD THE NEED ARISE TO USE THERE TRAINING.THE TRAINER KEPT IT INTERSETING WHISLT KEEPING A RELAXED ATMOSPHERE.GOOD REFRESHER FOR THOSE WHO REQUIRED ANIUPDATE  \
We were very impressed with the the trainer and the type of training. Spot on for our requirements.\
Staff feed back was good course and they feel confident to use their new skills\
The course was full on for the whole duration but the visability of the screen and tutor / the chairs and the heating left a bit to be desired.  Would have preferred to have had a cheap lunch provided rather than pastries for breakfast!  I would have preferred a bit of time to discuss how we present the courses (as we were all trainers) and there were some questions I wanted a direct answer to ie how to lift a wheelchair into the back of a vehicle - how does moving and handling work when we have couriers bring in stuff - how much training do they have and whose responsibility if they hurt their back delivering companies goods..  That seems a bit negative but should not be taken that way - thanks for putting on the course and I enjoyed it\
Really positive feedback given by all delegates, informative, great delivery and can really see how would use the skills if a situation arose\
A good course expertly delivered by mick Watson.\
Feedback from all attendees was really positive. Trainer was very good and knowledgable.\
\
Everyone who attended the course have all agreed that the course was run really well\
Course handbook and workbook- excellent Course power point- shockingly bad. Broke all the rules about what makes an effective slide deck. Far too much text which forced the trainer to talk through the slides a lot of the time. This meant most participants switched off.\
Overall a very good course mick the trainer was very professional and good at explaining \
The general thought was that the trainer seemed unorganised and inexperienced. See did say that this was her first course taken on her own and we understand that everyone has to start somewhere. Maybe a class of 15 was too much on her first solo course.  The feeling was she was just reading from the manual and not really listening to what anyone was saying.  We also had to do some exercises and wasn't explained why or to what relevance they were - in particular the active listening exercise.   A few real life scenarios would have been good as people have come out feeling unequipped should they be faced with needing to provide help to someone. \
The MHFA manual is quite comprehensive. Content seems generic (and common sense) across disorders, conditions, illnesses. I enjoyed the course but felt it was difficult to engage with the facilitator who read from powerpoint slides. The most engaging courses have minimal content on slides while the facilitator provides original and insightful content without reading off slides! Everyone on the course felt the same as we discussed it. It felt like the slides replicated the manual - I could have read the manual without needing to attend the course, particularly a two-day course. I feel with original power point slides, the course would be condensed into one day (because the slides simply replicate the manual). The videos we watched were also outdated and stereotypical. More effort could be made into finding insightful videos for participants to watch. I also feel self-disclosure is useful when facilitating, yet I felt there was too much self-disclosure on behalf of the facilitator. I assessed this based on how relevant the self-disclosure was to the content - it made it very personal rather than general, that is, it was good to hear about the facilitator's experiences yet it pigeon-holed some of the content to her experience only... if that makes sense. Also, for \'ac\'a3300 I feel lunch needed to be provided. The course could definitely be condensed into one day - there's no need to go through every single disorder/condition because most of the guidance is the same and common sense. I suggest picking out several key disorders (GAD, depression, eating disorders) and creating case studies around these, getting people to work in groups to go through ALGEE process. A lot more original thinking needs to go into designing this course. \
\
\
\
\
Very good knowledgeable trainer, answers any questions you throw at him. Best training provider in comparison to others. \
I found the course very informative, factual, positively delivered also the materials provided were ample.  \
All 3 of our engineers enjoyed the day and thought the venue excellent. A good service from booking to implementation.\
Jon great trainer\
All colleagues involved said how easy it was to learn from David and that the sessions were fun and they got a lot out of each day. \
Richard was excellent. Very knowledgable, friendly and made the colleagues feel at ease. Would highly recommend him\
\
Really good course, the content was delivered at a good pace, the trainers knowledge was extensive which made the training interesting, the work book and trainer manual very good. would highly recommend this course.\
I really enjoyed the course with Jon and would highly recommend. \
Trainer very good\
Very good trainer and the course was very good I learnt a lot especially how hard to have to press for the Heimlich manoeuvre to see the foam item shoot out\
\
Our trainer Bob Campbell was great.  He made the course fun and very enjoyable whilst informative and helpful at the same time.  Bob even spent a little extra time on issues that would be more relevant to our industry.  All attendees thoroughly enjoyed the day.\
Mick was very knowledgeable and made the course extremely interesting and fun to be on. We had good fun and the practical side was refreshing and Mick was always happy to answer our questions and make sure we understood all aspects before moving on to the next topic. \
\
The trainer had varied personalities and agreed with colleagues he had an aggressive teaching style. However, he did soften as days past, thankfully.   The training venue was absolutely awful and I request discount of the invoice due to this. The original venue was at The Village Hotel, which of course is a lovely venue, and I wanted to treat my staff to a nice training experience as externally we don't often have training for a group. I was then confronted with having to pay for parking this costs us an additional \'ac\'a315.00 which we did not include in expenses. Furthermore, the training room had no windows. Being a previous trainer, and having understanding of learning environments, this dungeon was not acceptable.Thirdly, not even tea and coffee served. I enquired regarding the costs of this and I would have cost your company, \'ac\'a32.50 per person, per day. I have also taken photographs of the venue for your records if you would wish to contact me directly. This included door wedges on 3 fire doors in the training rooms, more alarmingly, they then had a 'test' without actually informing anyone.  I am deeply upset that we have spent such a cost on such a poor training experience. I would like this to be logged as a complaint and wish to receive feedback.\
\
Was expecting to find the course difficult due to my lack of interest in the subject but came with interest in the subject and confidence in my ability to give first aid \
\
Trainer was very knowledgeable \
Course was put together well. Points delivered well. Improvement on previous courses I've attended with other providers.  All the teaching practices were set out well and assessed in a good manner with feedback to each of us after each practical assessment .  Ken did a good job, got the points across and addressed any questions or issues well and in a satisfactory manner.\
The course was well run, the course leader great, the venue brilliant. The pre office organisation really needs work, i was sent an automatic response after booking online with the wrong venue details. Called to check the day before the course and was first told there was no course in BTN and then given the right venue. A confirmation email a few days before the course would be a very good idea.  Also I filled this in in paper form after course ended, it would be useful to choose which route you are taking instaed of repeating things as it tends to wind people up! I dont believe that the option on the next page untick for a positive choice is GDPR compliant, you need to check this\
The course was informative and enjoyable, the instructor gave real life situations through out the training which made it more interesting. I would highly recommend the course.  The only disappointment was the venue and lack of refreshments throughout the day.\
Excellent course with great detail for people with little or no experience. Paul was an excellent trainer with an exceptional level of knowledge. He looked after the team and worked with each individuals needs. He did that well, the team thought he deserved special thanks for the amazing work he does so got him a thankyou card. Please pass on our comments and thanks. \
\
\
The course was great and very informative.\
Great course and trainer. My only complaint is I had to ring several times to get certificates sent finally arrived nearly 2 months after the course and now am unable to access them as doesn\'82\'c4\'f4t accept my password and password recovery email was blank. \
\
This is feedback from one of the Store Managers that attended - Ian the trainer was fantastic, there were 9 of us there and all had many questions, he answered all of them in full, engaged with everyone and even showed us bits that weren't on the course when we asked.  Top man!\
\
\
\
\
\
There was a lot of material to cover but I feel that the course certainly increased my confidence in this area. \
The team learnt loads & she was brilliant with our member of staff who\'82\'c4\'f4s deaf. Highly recommend her\
Excellent content and delivered impeccably.  I really enjoyed the course and felt my perceptions and understanding of mental health issues and illness have both been vastly extended and improved.  I intend to implement the information I learnt within my work community as well as everyday life. Thank you. \
Very useful course and excellent tutor.\
Very interesting and informative\
Fab course, found the trainer really enthusiastic and good at his job. kept us all entertained the whole day. brilliant knowledge of the subject. really amazing man! \
i think the course was very well explained, good relaxed atmosphere with all trainees and trainer. mark holdsworth made each individual person understand everything that was gone through and if there was any questions mark would go further in to detail to answer any questions, i would highly recommend this course to any person - and i am sending more staff along soon for training from the Brewery. 10 out of 10 for the course and for mark the trainer.....  \
\
very polite, arrived in plenty of time to set up, colleagues enjoyed the course.\
My only negative comment would be was the facilities.  The room used could have been cleaner.  The floor seemed quite dirty.\
All colleagues enjoyed the course, and commented on how lovely the trainer was\
We all enjoyed the course. Paul was excellent and professional. I thought the exam was a great improvement. This course was far better than the previous one.\
Neil Smith made it interesting & engaging throughout & made sure information was absorbed by everyone in the class.. He is an outstanding Tutor in my opinion thanks for the experience.\
\
\
very good and interesting course.\
The room was not suitable at all.  There were 7 people on the course & we could barely fit 3 people on the floor to practice recovery & CPR.  The floor was cold, hard & dirty.  There were no mats or anything available to lie on for practice.  St. Mary Magdalene Church in Enfield is not a suitable location for any kind of training.  There was also no parking available which could have been mentioned when the course was booked. Mak was great - making the most (of very little room) pf what we had.  Used real life examples making too.\
great course, John was a great tutor, really got a lot out of it and it was an enjoyable day. \
Bespoke course, very good, discussed needs and delivered required content\
The course was very useful and the trainer had a very satisfying level of knowledge and experience.  The only thing is that I'm still waiting for the certificates to come through\
\
We loved our instructor Ann.  Most of our participants were young and can be hard to engage but she did a wonderful job. \
The course gave a good high level overview of Mental Health and Mental ill Health. However, I was expecting much for information on the legal aspects of managing Mental ill Health. Joni-Rae was a competent trainer, however, it sometimes felt that she struggling to get the course to 'flow' and the room layout did not help, either.  I am also surprised that a lot of the material used is from the period 2010-2016.  Given that Mental Health is now being openly discussed by many levels of society including workplaces, and information is constantly being updated, I was expect more recent material.  \
The course was good and the trainer was excellent. I was expecting a little more focus on the workplace. I also don't really understand why we do a physical evaluation at the end of the course and now are asked to do an electronic one? Thanks \
jackie was an  excellent trainer, everyone really enjoyed the course\
\
I have attended this training course on 3 occasions at the same venue in Exeter, this event was by far the best. The trainer Bruce Hooker was exceptional, his training style/knowledge was superb. He held your attention throughout the event answering any queries with ease.\
\
\
Feed back from staff was positive \
After collecting feedback from the delegates they said the course was very rushed in the first day due to people only attending for the first day and consequently it felt like the trainer had run out of material by the 3rd day\
The preparation and provision of the course was extremely good however the one area that could be improved upon is the post course support in the supply of certification for the attendees to show they have been successful.\
Pat Whilding said that Paul had done her previous training and she found him very informative and made her feel at ease. Both Ariana and Fran said the same.\
Anne was extremely knowledgable and was able to make the course fun while still educational.  This kept great colleague engagement. And i would highly recommend using your company's service which was simple to arrange and seamless. \
I thought the course was extremely informative and very useful. I was really engaged and really took the trainer who really knew what he was talking about and also was nice to see how passionate he was also. The resources given out were amazing and things I will use moving forward.  In relation to my job I think the course really helped and I have took many methods away to help but also in daily life. \
\
really interesting and easy to understand and our trainer was very friendly and approachable \
Great course, thanks. \
Had a lot of fun and really enjoyed the course. Great way to teach by making things entertaining especially with how serious the course is. If it was not taught in the way it was then the knowledge learnt may have been forgotten after a couple of days. Would certainly recommend Antonia for any future training and hopefully when I do my refresher she will be the trainer again. Thank you for a enjoyable and very knowledgeable course.\
staff feel confident when dealing with first aid incidents after there thorough course which they enjoyed\
\
fantastic course have always loved my first aid role & after this latest course has opened my eyes to taking this to the next level \
Thoroughly enjoyed the course which was well delivered by the two trainers on site, (as a 1 Day refresher).  Feedback sheet handed to trainer provides further information.  Will return for revalidation/retest in mid 2020.  Thank you.  Glenn\
filthy conditions, dirty floor expected to get down on to. The course content was covered to quickly no proof of learning, expected to write answers in  the workbook to chapters not yet covered.\
\
The staff who did the training said the instructor (Mark Holdsworth) was wonderful, he explained things clearly to them and put them at ease.\
\
The trainer covered everything very well and kept the pace at a good level so it never got boring but you were also never rushed. Trainer was very knowledgeable and helpful. The location was ok, nothing amazing but it didn't need to be and helps to keep the cost down so as far as I was concerned it worked perfectly\
Charlene Wilson and Sam Brown attended the course.  Charlene stated that the venue was ok but there was a lack of water/tea/coffee and some reorganising of the rooms as another event was in place which was disappointing.. However she could not fault the trainer and the course, she though this was perfect. thank you\
Course and Trainer, brilliant and engaging, even the regular stuff was made interesting..  Venue could do with better Tea&Coffee facilities, one flask per room isn't enough. \
Very well delivered, easily communicated, approachable. Well Done!\
A great day of training\
I was on edge before the training as a couple of colleagues who have done the course previously warned of how challenging and taxing it can be. Although the topics are obviously difficult, I feel that Ross Abbott made all the difference in this aspect. I was able to take in and learn the topics, without being forced or felt like someone was reading from a textbook at me.  Ross was extremely inviting and very comforting by nature. I felt that this made everything smooth. I also felt that the way the topics were handled was engaging and extremely easy to engage with.  On the whole, everything from Ross Abbott, to the format of the sessions, to the rules set out at the start set the example of what all courses like this should be handled.   \
Ross is an exceptional trainer, he obviously knows his subject very well and is passionate about it too, it comes across that way, and he is able to channel it, into a wonderful learning environment. The course was very helpful and beneficial, and I have already used some of the training points to good use.  I thoroughly recommend Ross as a trainer and the 2 day mental Health course.\
Very friendly and informative trainer which makes for better quality training \
Kept a good pace on the course and didn't go 'off track' which meant he focussed on the training that was required and we were all given direct and correct information instead of diverting from one subject to another.\
trainer very jolly and enthusiastic  could give more time for practical assignments maybe\
\
Refreshments (tea and coffee) were not provided and the cleanliness of the facilities was questionable.\
I have had fantastic feedback from the colleagues who attended the course. They mainly said there was a great balance between the theory and the practical learning. They said the trainer was a lovely lady who was good at her job and made the course interesting.\
The course was excellent and Bart, the trainer, was exceptionally good. But the room was not nearly big enough for 13 people - we were pretty squashed in and if it had been summer we would have been boiling hot. The Best Western Swiss Cottage did the least possible to welcome us: they provided a ridiculously small jug of coffee for 13 people, refused to replenish it ('They've ordered on and that's what you're getting') and refused to supply more tap water. When I got onto Twitter, they immediately arrived with coffee, though not water. Really unimpressed and I wouldn't use them again if I were you. \
The feed back I had from the colleagues who took the course was very positive, they felt they learnt more from the refresher \
Great :) \
Malcolm was very friendly a good listener very knowledgeable and was a lovely trainer.\
I didn't attend this course\
very thorough and well facilitated\
well presented and informative\
Nice and friendly man who knew what he was talking about. He tried to make it interesting and would like to think my staff have learnt a bit.\
I found the scenario work with the defibrillator machine very helpful as I am noe more confident in its use.  The last course three years ago this wasnt available, we just had a talk and video.  Being 'hands on' made all the difference   \
The trainer had a good range of materials and props and we did get to work with these.  He also had a really good range of real life videos demonstrating the various conditions which I found particularly helpful so you could see exactly how casualties will react. He had a bit of a habit of repeating himself though and I think we could have spent a bit more time on practice, however to be fair we were a very experienced group.\
The Trainer Mark was very good and related well to all the candidates. The course content was concise and was presented in a serious but fun way where the candidates were made to feel at ease and found it easy to actively participate. \
\
\
Participants of the course all said how good the course was. Full of information and Keir the instructor was brilliant\
As a Lead IQA, Assessor, Trainer and Consultant in multiple H&S disciplines, as well as an ex ECA with East of England Ambulance Service NHS Trust, my feedback is being given based around my existing knowledge and experience as well as from the point of view of a customer.   Firstly the facilities in which the course took place were absolutely fine.  The Trainer was a personable and pleasant person, who remained completely professional throughout. He was never inappropriate and engaged the group fully, allowing time for delegates to add anything and to ask any questions they wanted- which were all answered fully.   My concern was that the Trainer stated his laptop was not working so he could not use the course presentation.  Whilst I am not a fan of Power Point reliance I believe it forms part of a structured course presentation and also forms part of a company's branding.  The Trainer only used 'chat' and the flip chart, which I felt left a few areas of the course not covered as fully as they could have been.  Added to this delegates being shown a short film on the Trainers mobile telephone does not show the company in a good light.    Whilst this was my first experience of Green Cross Training I believe the company is a provider of quality training and, whilst I was a little disappointed in aspects of this course, it would not prevent me rebooking with the company.   Paul Mullard TechIOSH Axis Safety\
hi I enjoyed the course mac made it fun but also very educational \
great trainer who made the course relevant to the real world and industry we worked in\
All delegates passed and certificates arrived not long after!\
\
\
The staff at the location David Lloyd leisure centre should be more helpful when ask for the refreshment and check if they need to refilled.\
I did not attend the training, but I coordinated it. However the delegates fed back to me and were very positive regarding the course. They said the trainer was extremely engaging, made it very real, used humour to keep everyone engaged and related it to the real working environment at Talkback.\
Excellent training once again from Mick, he kept it lighthearted and demonstrated all activities and situations in detail. He also kept his cool very well with a person in the group with problematic behaviour. \
\
N/A\
\
Course content is really good. Paul Frederick is very good to work with.  Filling out the booklet to send back to GreenCross feels like a waste of time, energy and paper.   There is a risk of loss of data protection from the sheet of paper that goes around to collect the attendees' address, birthday, email, etc. Please look into a better way to collect this data. I felt quite uncomfortable in wirting this on a sheet of paper that circulated to nine strangers who also attended the course. \
fantastic course and the trainer was excellent as he had first hand experience in many scenarios. Would highly recommend.\
Fantastic to learn a skill that could save lives in such a fun and enjoyable way .  Ace feedback from all my fellow participants as well .  Marks is such a great engaging trainer who clearly loves his job - thank you to him and everyone behind the scenes , especially our key contact Lynn Fleming who makes the essential training for our colleagues  possible .  Are we sure that our colleague fainting on the day was not set up as a test ???lol   By the way , I am not mocking the afflicted as he is truly fit and well now and laughing about it all himself \
The candidates all said they thoroughly enjoyed the course. \
\
Trainers were really nice and efficient. Good layout of room and set up of the course. Good structure to the course and overall was really pleased and thoroughly enjoyed the course.\
Phillip was an excellent trainer and very professional at all times, he was very easy to ask questions to without feeling like an idiot, and he made some of the harder aspects of the training easier to remember with little helpful hints and tips. The equipment was first class and was extremely helpful for practice, and the sceniros that we acted out as a group was most helpful too,  \
Very good trainer , everyone that had done a course previous said that this one was by far the best because of David Hardaker. We was always laughing and hopefully our refresher will be with him too.\
Professional Polite Structured\
Very good course and the trainer was excellent!\
John was a very accomplished and knowledgeable trainer. One of the best courses I have attended\
\
\
\
good and informative\
Great trainer very knowledgeable. \
Nick Collins delivered an easy to follow format of a variety of both practical, video and Powerpoint information. The practical sessions provided good instruction coupled with a raft of practical information to help us all in 'what if....' scenarios.\
Course and trainer were greater, venue wasn't.  \
Really good trainer.  Mick made you feel really confident and kept the training very simple.  Good variety of teaching devices, video, practical, flipchart, powerpoint etc.  One thing I think could be incorporated more are role play scenarios, where course attendees enter the room and have to deal with whats been set up. eg other attendees requiring different first aid. This was very helpful. \
The course was very informative and engaging. \
The course was fantastic. Trainer was excellet. The only gripe that i have, the venue wasn't particularly good. dirty, cold, unprepared and the coffee was awful. \
Feedback from delegates was great. One of the ladies has attended repeated courses over a number of years as a Guide Leader and Volunteer, these have been through various providers and trainers. The feedback was that Mark was the best yet, very knowledgable and made the course interesting and enjoyable.\
\
Enjoyable, Thorough trainer with great knowledge. All delegates came away feeling good about their level of training\
Excellent trainer and course content.   Venue OK.\
The only issue was for me that we didn't have a table to write at. Other than that was a great course and it helped me recap on the training that I have received previously.\
Mick Watson made the course very interesting and enjoyable .  Very clear and precise on all introductions to our first aid course \
The trainees all  thought the training was very good especially the practical aspects \
\
Really enjoyed this course and it\'82\'c4\'f4s made me feel more confident in my ability to carry out first aid should I need to.\
\
I would highly recommend this course and the trainer was very pleasant and full of knowledge made the course easy to understand and if I didn't understand he was approachable to ask . Thank you  for a good experience . Debbie Hall (Wrap Around Supporting People). \
\
Very informative.\
No Comments to make.\
Sam was a brilliant teacher and made the course interesting. We are all very thankful for this course and feel confident if any event happened here at the Golf Club that we will be able to do our best to help. Please send on our thank yous to Sam as he really was a great teacher we learnt a lot.  Kind regards Catherine \
We were only informed of the venue at a late stage and so we could not attend. We have not been offered a refund as it was within 14 days. BUT we didn't know the location before then ! We are now having to pay for another course which is very disappointing. We are part of a large group that use your services a lot. I will be recommending they look elsewhere when it is up for review.\
\
\
\
The materials felt a bit dated, the trainer often interjected with up to date stats and practices. The videos we watched were quite obviously rather old. It might be worth considering updating these.  The trainer himself was very knowledgeable, and talked abut his own experiences which made the material feel relevant. My only criticism is that he emphasised the different in suicide stats between males and females many times, which is obviously an important point. But he explained it in terms of stereotypes and women just finding it easier to talk. As a woman who might be struggling to talk about my own mental health, that felt quite dismissive.\
Excellent in every regard\
Amazing course, would highly recommend\
Mick was brilliant!\
Great course, run at just the right pace - really informative, good discussion and great practical experience.  Well worth 2 days!\
Trainer was excellent and very helpful. Constantly checked that everyone understood the material and was very enthusiastic when answer questions.\
\
Very good course,proffessional,lovely trainer\
On 2 days the trainer was late, he also did not cover off the epi-pen. Colleagues believed that the recovery position should have also have been practised, which it was not. Not all colleagues got the chance to use the defibrillator and put pads on, they would have preferred to do this hands on.  Course did not last the full duration of 9am-4pm for 3 days\
This was the best course I've ever been on! Ross Abbott was absolutely fantastic! \
The room was left in a mess. Plates and cups left on tables\
\
\
\
Sarah was brilliant the information she delivered was perfect and all attendees enjoyed it. there was a good mix of practical and theory work which kept everyone engaged.\
Taff Townsend was a very excellent course tutor passed on he knowledge in a way that was easily taken in it was a pleasure to be on his first aid course\
Usually taking a first aid course is slow and boring but Neil Murray managed to keep us all engaged and made the course fun. I enjoyed all three days and have learned some very valuable skills.\
Colleagues all really enjoyed it. And everyone passed\
Great course and Instructor,better than previous course's I've done.\
Reset my expectation on the definition and remit of first aid\
\
Trainer was absolutely brilliant. Great course. \
The instructor was very good and the course was a bit more in-depth than normal. The course went very well and the trainer was excellent, I feel more prepared now than I have after any other First Aid Training. The training was fantastic, it was the best first aid training I\'82\'c4\'f4ve had. The trainer was really knowledgeable and made the session fun and interactive.\
The trainer was very professional and knowledgeable made the course very interesting and involved each member of the team on the course at all times. We will definitely recommend him \
Sorry but our store will close from 13th January, but the PFS and Pharmacy will still remain, It will be Haslingden in the future that will be booking any extra courses.\
Our colleagues really enjoyed the 3 day course. There were only 5 attendees which apparently made it better due to being able to ask more questions. All in all, very good so thank you.\
Excellent venue, which was used well by the trainer\
Trainer was excellent able to involve and encourage all in mixed group. Training was pitched correct for our team.\
\
\
\
VERY GOOD INSTUCTOR, KEPT YPU INTERESTED AND ANSWERED ALL QUESTIONS SO AS YOU COULD UNDERSTAND THEM\
The training was very comprehensive and the trainer Bart was great at answering all the questions we had. \
\
\
\
\
Good course with excellent trainer \
Comments fed back directly to course organiser with regards how pleased we were with the trainer Martyn Blackford\
Great course. The course leader Glen was extremely well knowledged and ensured that all of the participants fully understood the information that was being put across. I feel confident in my now abilities to be a first aider. Great stuff, keep up the good work.\
The trainers attending where excellent and provided a fun packed day. The venue was very clean warm and tidy. I would highly recommend anyone to attend courses run by Green Cross Training.\
It was really great experience \
\
All Staff loved the course and felt it went beyond their expectations. The trainer John was excellent and delivered the material in a straight forward yet fun way. \
Tim is a brilliant man whose years of experience and knowledge were very evident throughout the day. Straight to the point, no messing around, but at the same time willing to have a laugh. Thank you very much for this opportunity.  Ash McKiernan\
What a great CPD day, thank you Greencross Training for setting this up, I would like to attend more and build my portfolio more.  thank you.\
\
Tim is a brilliant man whose years of experience and knowledge were very evident throughout the day. Straight to the point, no messing around, but at the same time willing to have a laugh. Thank you very much for this opportunity.  Ash McKiernan\
They charge way too much for refreshments!! \
\
Excellent day, good pace, great content , would recommend it to All trainers ! \
\
\
felt a little rushed and didn't cover much that was in the hand book. A previous course with a different instructor who had other work mates seemed to cover more topics. \
\
Brilliant trainer. Good course size as well. \
\
Very good course well delivered. I have already recommended you to Southern Decorators.\
Whilst I have not been on the course, the feedback from all of the staff I have asked has been outstanding. They have commented that the level of knowledge the trainer had and the detail he went into made the courses very interesting and helped them engage. When we next book a course we would request the same trainer again. \
Trainer sent to wrong store(pengam Green extra and not Cardiff extra). No communication about start time. Email received on 9 DECEMBER 2018, WHICH WAS A SUNDAY, OFFICE CLOSED SUNDAY   PLEASE CHANGE DAVID MADGWICK TO CLAIRE PICKETT\
\
Company chooses to use this course so our people are trained correctly for first aid in our stores.\
\
A really informative course, made very enjoyable with lots of practical work\
\
Another great course from Tim and Ross. Tim was very knowledgeable about the subject and pitched the course at the correct level and pace for the group \
materials not available to trainer first thing. course is a lot for 1 day. as it was we overran.\
When using the dummies maybe the use of antibacterial gel inside of floor wipes would be a good thing\
Issues with the venue as initially put into a marquee which was excessively hot and had to be evacuated from it. We were then put into another room which was very cold\
The course was really good, Ross tackled a sensitive subject brilliantly. I enjoyed the first day so much, I was looking forward to Day 2\
-Kerry Forbes was amazing at emailing promptly with accurate information as well as being friendly.  -Lack of communication between trainer and green cross training meant that we have a few emails going back and forth trying to sort out the timings after we already received a confirmation.  -Some parts of the training weren't coherent, it felt rushed. Especially the time we got with the defibrillator.\
\
Great course. Difficult subject matter but the trainer made it a really relaxed and comfortable environment. Great to be able to share and listen to other peoples experiences and use this to learn about the topic. My only critique is the lack of on-site parking.\
Trainer was very thorough and ensured that everyone understood and all questions were answered before moving on to the next section.  A very informative and useful day.\
Ross was an excellent knowledgeable trainer. He delivered the course at a good pace and in a sensitive manor The course has given me a deeper understanding and the confidence and tools to be able to offer support to someone in need. Thank you \
\
the trainer was superb, everybody really enjoyed it\
I found the training very useful. One small feedback is it would have been useful to know the agenda and training structure for each day to better understand course contents for each day and set expectations.\
Ann,was strict,straight to the point and committed. She put me thru it and I learnt very much. Couldn't have had a better tutor \
\
\
This was a really engaging training day - both of our trainers were clearly very knowledgeable and I feel confident about my first aid ability thanks to their help.\
Clare Thompson is a competent trainer.  She works well with our students here at Chipping Norton School.  She is well prepared and is committed to all the students passing.  We rate her highly. Thank you so much. \
The course instructor turned up late on the day & this meant a we were behind from the start. Also the required paperwork from yourselves only turned up on the day for him. All a bit lastminute.com if I' honest and expected better as you are the market leader.\
\
Excellent delivery of the training course \
\
\
Ian was great. Very knowledgeable and informative.\
A few typos in the slides (sorry but I proof read for companies and they were glaring to me). Also found constant reference to pulse confusing as we were told that it was no longer a requirement to take a pulse - perhaps slides need updating?\
Great Training enjoyed the day found it of great interest\
very well delivered\
very well delivered\
\
Andy Clarke was a very engaging and\
The CPR and De fib training was by far the best i have had and was obviously his speciality. I felt that the end of the second day was slightly rushed, but nevertheless all topics were covered and the trainer was competent and made the trainees feel relaxed. I was very happy to ask questions.\
\
\
The course was run priofessionally and with enthusiasm that helped to encourage and instill confidence into the staff involved. Thank you. Look forward to the next one.\
excellent train the trainer course, lots of support and encouragement from the trainer, with the appropriate amount of practice and peer to peer demonstration so that you gain the experience to teach this topic to others. Thank you Tim for another great TTT course.\
The course was scheduled to start at 10, but began at 9:30, meaning many of the delegates were 'late', even though they arrived on time.\
\
\
Very useful course, gave me the confidence to administer first aid\
very good course lots more info then other first aid course that I have been on staff were very happy and enjoyed it.\
The handy sized first aid manual that we were given is brilliant.  The Trainer Mark Blackham was a lovely man, very knowledgeable he knew answers to all questions and ensured we all understood before moving onto something new, he bought humour and sensitivity to the Training .  I highly recommend him.\
\
course was carried out in a nice timely manner, which helped to understand it\
Notification of change of venue far too late - you should have called the candidates directly rather than an email which was not picked up until too late. This put unfair pressure and stress on our participant who then had to hurry to another venue.  Because of this, everyone was late and the course leader (who had also gone to the wrong venue) decided to hurry the course along to still finish at 4pm. As a result we felt the course was rushed, not as professional as it should have been, and critical areas may not have been given the attention deserved.\
Very interactive and informative. A very good range of topics. Charles was a good communicator and provided a great training.\
the booklet which comes with the course seems a little dated for the content taught.\
\
Good course   Mark was engaging and made the course interesting and informative \
The trainer was very good and very helpful.\
it was a good course with a brilliant trainer who had good knowledge and made the course enjoyable\
\
Both trainers were good - however as this is a developing area, at times they could not always answer every question asked.\
\
\
Venue was too small for 12 people.  Very quick course and a lot of information to be processed in a very short space of time - also course seemed to deviate from the booklet - Personally if the booklet had been used more and referenced through out the course - the learning assessment at the end would have made a bit more sense and questions easier to answer and understand., \
needs more parking at the willow centre!!!\
The feedback I have been given from colleagues attending the course is good.  I was told it was informative and dealt with everything needed for first aid.  \
\
\
Our colleagues seemed to enjoy the course and the interaction was great\
Very good, practical course, carried in an informal and professional way.  Thank you\
Feedback for the course and trainer was excellent.\
Enjoyable course. I did Train the Trainer which will allow me to deliver this. It is a good add on for fire training \
\
\
\
Trainer very knowledgeable, kept the classes interest very well. The venue however was awful. There was absolutely no parking, when asking venue staff as to where I could park the pointed me in the direction of a two hour max stay car park. When the course runs from 8:45-4 this is not the best advice. Venue staff rude and dismissive of my concerns and actually uttered the words 'not my problem sir' which I found extremely disrespectful. \
\
\
\
The only downside was the Venue- The Adelphie Hotel. The room was freezing cold when we got there on day 1 so we asked for the heating to be put on, 2 hours later we were all boiling hot and we had to have it turned off completely as there was no temperature control switch. Apart from that the course was very good and the trainer was excellent.\
\
Great material for a half day course to refresh our knowledge and trainer knew a lot of information and went into detail which was great.\
Maybe different videos or more videos as we had already seen 2 of the 3 shown in previous sessions\
A bit slow generally...faster pace would have helped.\
It would be more efficient for the class to be 2 and 1/2 days.  Being that the practical seemed it only needed a half day\
Mike was a great trainer and we all really enjoyed the course and would like when we have a future course mike is the trainer. \
One or two minor errors in the atttendee booklets but this will be picked up by the trainer.\
\
It would be good to have been able to practice CPR on a child and/or baby sized mannequin \
All the staff who took part said that Neil was very friendly, he explained the content thoroughly and in a manner that was easy to understand. One of the group has taken first aid courses here before and she said he was the best trainer she has had.\
Excellent course.  Tailored to our needs.  At a level that was well understood by all and delivered with enthusiasm \
\
\
The trainer (Julie McDonald-Simpson) was really informative and really engaging.  She tailored the course to the audience and needs, clearly has a passion for the subject which made the course a really enjoyable experience. Thanks Julie!\
Julie was an excellent trainer, with a clear passion for the subject.  The course covered the areas I would expect.  Only thing I would change is room location, as being below the weightlifting section of the gym, the noise from the dropping of weights and music was at times distracting.\
Mark explained everything as if he was talking to you 1-1 a very good training session\
Great trainer. Course content pretty good. Maybe needed a bit more content in answer booklet\
The course and the content of the powerpoint & handbook was great and was very useful. I have previously done courses with Green Cross and had a wonderful trainer who provided lots of demonstration equipment and had thought about what different participants may require (soft cushions / matts to lie on).  Sadly the gentleman - who was very presentable and confident, didn't match with his preparation. He mentioned he downloaded the powerpoint the night before and couldn't recollect what parts of first aid where on the course and when.   As there was a high amount of people on the course from a supermarket (Tesco's) I felt many scenarios and course content was geared towards this type of workplace and the high risk environment was quickly covered (i.e Electric Shock / Crushing).  I am sure this is not a reflection on Green Cross as I have booked my company with you before and believe this to be a case of drawing the short straw on this course.\
Fun And very informative course  with good role play scenario for us to pratice our skills\
These are the amalgamated comments/feedback from the 2 attendees from Essex County Council. The Trainer  Carol Fletcher, was very knowledgeable and her background with the ambulance service added much gravitas to her explanations and examples. Training Materials  These were good. However I feel that the booklet could have been provided electronically in advance to give course attendees a \'82\'c4\'fahead start\'82\'c4\'f9 given the truncated nature of a two day refresher course. The Venue/Room  Close enough to the station but there was no parking, refreshments and natural light in the training room were not helpful. Refreshments  See above!  - 50p from a machine and were poor. Hygiene  Good. Course Admin  A bit rushed on arrival but to be expected.  All these questions were also asked by the trainer at the venue and we completed a feedback form.   \
excellent course and trainer, thank you.\
\
I have tried to complete the 0-10 scale but it won't allow me to.  The course was a brilliant course and the trainer superb, however i feel there could be more equipment to use....ie bandages\
My course location was moved from a hall to a training room at Tesco. There were 10 people on the course, 4 of whom were not Tesco employees (including myself) but the course was geared towards what you would find on the shopfloor rather than taking into account the businesses of the 4 people who didn't work in Tesco and in fairness to the trainer, the Green Cross Powerpoint presentation was showing the basics. However, when working through the trainee book there was a section for applying tourniquets & haemostatic dressings which would have been a very relevant skill for the four of us who didn't work for Tesco (2 candidates worked on heavy machinery & vehicles, 1 candidate worked in event/theatre production involving lighting riggings and other high risk areas). When we asked if we could complete that section we were simply told that it's not something that you'd have to learn to work in Tesco which made us feel very much like we were tagging along on a Tesco course! So the trainer gave a two minute demo of how to put a tourniquet on but couldn't demo haemostatic dressings as he had none. We were told to learn the techniques from You Tube. Aside from this issue I found the trainer to be knowledgeable and very capable of teaching the required techniques. The training room supplied by Tesco was far too small for the ten candidates and we were required to stack furniture to make floor space.  Along with the other candidates I was very surprised that basic refreshments (tea /coffee) were not available.  There was a vending machine which was only for use by Tesco staff who held the required swipe card and this was the same in the cafeteria.  We were not even allowed to have a jug of tap water and some plastic cups. We had to go into the shop and buy bottled water or to the Costa coffee attached to the shop if we wanted a hot drink.\
Very informative really interesting and knowledgable trainer\
\
Needs more on diabetes and allergies, which is needed in retail.\
The Course was really good, so was the Trainer; however booking the Course was a real pain. Poorly thought out web page with a broken link causes confusion. Instructions for booking the Course not clear enough. Help number couldn't get you off the phone quick enough, they were not helpful and quite dis interested. I can't have been the only person ringing up seeking clarification. The Course itself was great and so was the excellent instructor.\
Leila was a very good trainer i learnt an awful amount over the 3 days so thank you !\
The training centre I would not recommend.  Rude Staff Lack of parking No drinks provided only vending machines\
Course was enjoyable, perfect learning - practising ratio.\
Having previously completed a 3 day course by another provider, your course was considerably better. Informal atmosphere and a great trainer made it a stress free experience. Will be recommending your course to others.\
I thoroughly enjoyed the course, it's content and the trainers delivered it excepotionally well. Mental Health has become very important to my worklife daily since the course and i am very pleased to have taken it, using the invaluable tools literally daily since. many thanks.\
Mark kept the training going with relevant examples of what he was explaining and demonstrating and the atmosphere was good.\
The course was great, couldn't fault it at all.  Mark was helpful, knowledgeable and kept a good pace throughout.\
Completed the course 3 years ago and its has dramatically improved since then. Content was great, trainer was great , right balance of learning and role play.\
\
\
\
\
everyone that attended the course found it not only really interesting and factful and packed with information but they also found it really enjoyable and easy to learn due to the different methods used within the course\
Great instructor, not a single dual moment. very enjoyable and in depth. very good teaching skills. the instructor is key to this course. I have been on a couple of First aid courses now and MAK was by far the best instructor I have had the pleasure of meeting. \
This was a very well organised training event.  The trainer was experienced and well prepared and the training programme was pitched at just the right level and pace.\
excellent trainer with excellent subject knowledge and delivery. Very approachable and offered as much support as needed\
Great course the trainer was fab made it\'82\'c4\'f4ll the day very pleasant \
Excellent Course.  I really enjoyed it.  Mark was a very good trainer and kept us engaged for the duration of the course.  \
Was a good course \
Was a good course \
Very accomodating and used environment well. Colleagues all very happy with the training they received so well done!\
\
It was just what we needed.  \
\
\
I thought the course was really useful, well explained and thorough. Some of the stories, comments and language from Mick were a bit out of place though - not really sure such personal, political opinions and outbursts are appropriate for groups of people from all walks of life. \
This was the best first aid training I\'82\'c4\'f4ve done ! I thought the first aider was very experienced and clear in what to do in an emergency situation! I feel very confident when a emergency arrives\
We went into this course knowing little about Health & Safety and have come out understanding how important it is and how we should help with the management of our building.  We all learned a great deal and found Tim very knowledgeable, he was easy to understand and made sure we were all understanding the course before moving on to another part.\
\
\
Feedback here has been great. The trainer was brilliant and the information provided was very good. \
n/a\
The Adelphi is not the best location.\
Great engaging course and tutor. Very productive and organised.\
message from Lyn (Suklan) who attended the course - the trainer was very hunky! So I'm not sure how much she learned!! :)\
\
The feedback from all colleagues taking part in the course was how fantastic the course was and the trainer was great. He made them feel at ease and they thoroughly enjoyed their training.\
The Venue was a let down The course I would recommend but the venue was awful    \
\
great course well delivered thanks .\
Although I didn't attend the course myself, I spoke with Iain Riddell regarding content and delivery in advance - all seemed ok. I spoke with a couple of delegates afterwards and they were happy with Iain's content and delivery.\
\
All the feedback I got for this first aid course was fantastic. The attendees said he was very thorough with the training and went into great details which they loved. \
The course was very well run, set at a good pace and interesting all the way through.\
The course was very good, the trainer engaging and likable.\
The contents of the course were excellent.  The trainer was very knowledgeable which really stood out throughout the course. The course was delivered in a relaxed and friendly atmosphere and there was enough time to understand each assignment.  I will definitely be feeding this back to Senior Managers to assist when the are looking at training providers in the future.  \
I had registered to attend the 3 day course. On day we had 6 in our group including myself. Couse content was delivered at a nice pace by the trainer. However, I was advised in the afternoon that  the full 3 day course would not be going ahead due to a shortage of number as the others in the group had only registered for the one day course. I was advised I can be re-booked on the next 3 day course free of charge.  This was extremely fdrustrating as I had hired a car for the 3 days due to my location and there being no direct transport to the course venue, which was some distance from me. Thsi was extremely disappointing. \
Great comments back from all attendees.  all positive feedback\
Overall, the course was very detailed and informative, the trainer knew what he was doing and if required, would happily do again\
I rate the the course a good, high 9.5. Trainer was on a par with the course also. Very relaxed and informative and always took the time to make sure all the information was being absorbed and understand. Took confidence from Bill and his manner. Would recommend to others.\
The Trainer was very informative, although I have undertaken similar courses in the past, I learnt a lot.\
\
Instructor was very friendly, informative and adaptable \
The Trainer was very nice and always made everyone feel comfortalbe and welcome. The day ran smoothly and was interesting to learn new things.\
\
10/10 would definitely recommend the course and the trainer. He held everyone's interest and made the course content easy to understand.\
\
\
\
Mia was fantastic at getting the group to work together. A great requal. Best yet. \
Great course that was well paced.\
\
\
Kier was very professional and the team seemed very happy with the training they received. Look forward to working with you again in the future.\
Really enjoyed the course had a lot of practical as well as classroom based reading. Lots of participation and questions we could asked and encouraged to ask as well. \
I attended this course with 2 colleagues.  Our biggest issues were as follows: 1) The trainer was much more interested in telling personal stories, that often had no relevance to the course content and felt like a waste of time. This also was very difficult for my learning style as I am auditory and had to actively 'switch off' which got quite tiring.  2) The trainer did not take into account learning styles. For example, did not demo how to do CPR only described it so when my colleague who is a visual learner had to do CPR in front of the class and wasn't able to achieve it. On top of this he used really negative language without adding a feedback sandwich which knocked her confidence. He called her 'awful' He also tried to dissuade her from doing it again in the break but said he wouldn't have passed her so she was confused as to her expectations. When she tried to discuss this he said she had been anxious but this was a projection as she was attempting to learn.  3) when she tried to speak to him about this and offer feedback he said 'it's my teaching style'. We are both ETTLLS trained teachers with many years experience and it is our understanding that as teachers we listen to feedback and adjust our style.  4) When she offered feedback, he became defensive and accusatory 5)) the course curriculum ended up rushed as there had been so much chat about irrelevant topics.   This course cost us alot of money as sole traders and a whole day of not trading. We are self employed and not part of a big corporation. This was not up to a professional standard and as such we would request a refund.\
\
Very practical.   Lots of equipment to try.  Informative beyond the strict curriculum.\
The accompanying booklet appeared a bit dated and in some sections seemed very brief\
\
Great course, superbly lead which made it engaging and good use of hands on exercises and demonstrations which made practical learning rather than just book learning.  I wouldn't hesitate to recommend the course, and Mick, to anyone interested in First Aid.\
\
All the feedback received from staff was positive and I would recommend this training.  Thanks Kim\
The course was a basic first aid course  but not specific to our industry \
\
\
The instructor was pleasant, professional  and very patient with a very demanding group.   All areas where covered and staff gave positive feedback.\
the course it self was very good at an introduction level , there were a few people who had no idea about first aid and was left behind a little , i think that a first aid course should be , industry  .. as in we work with in a ware house industry where eye  , whip lash and crush accidents are common place  and first aides who benefit more knowing how to deal with this then taking out splinters , apart from that a good course   \
the course it self was very good at an introduction level , there were a few people who had no idea about first aid and was left behind a little , i think that a first aid course should be , industry  .. as in we work with in a ware house industry where eye  , whip lash and crush accidents are common place  and first aides who benefit more knowing how to deal with this then taking out splinters , apart from that a good course   \
\
The instructor went into greater detail based on previous first aid courses that some of the participants have attended through work previously.\
\
it was a fantastic course with a great instructor (Dan) who knew his stuff and used great techniques to keep the group attentive and involved.\
Trainer was fantastic, Very professional and all points were delivered very constructively. Brilliant informative course. \
The course was fine but the trainer made unnecessary old fashioned sexist comments - for example telling only the men they should try doing the CPR with one hand, and suggesting that when we watched the epilepsy video, some of the 'ladies' might want to look away. This is a ridiculous, unnecessary and out of date attitude.\
Overall Brent Murphay was an exceptional trainer.  He made the course enjoyable and knowledgable at the sametime.  We all came away feeling confident returning to store as first aiders.\
Trainer used lots of life experiences to get the message across.  Delivery of the course was well presented, not monotone and kept the colleagues involved\
The trainer was excellent te course was very good, but the room was only small and very warm due to not knowing how to work the air con unit but overall a very good training programme \
\
Today we received our Internal feedback forms and to all questions everyone 'strong agreed' on all questions (all positive agreements). Really enjoyed the practical aspects of the course, content and delivery was good and they really liked the trainer.\
Trainer very knowledgable and went at a really good pase. engaged with everyone.\
\
Great\
Great session was had by all and Mick made the training easy to understand with a bit of fun thrown in.\
Tony was an excellent trainer. he was up beat and had a wicked sense of humour. the only down side of the course was the location. on the first day we were in the training room, then the other two days we were put in a room up in the roof with no air cond. it was so hot up there. we were not allowed any fans as it was health and safety.\
A very relaxed, informal and enjoyable course. Would highly recommend.\
\
A mixed variety of learning skills with excellent knowledge learnt from the 3 days.\
The delegates really enjoyed the course thank you.\
I enjoyed the course so much. The trainer was really good and informative.\
Our trainer Liela was very through and knew her topic well, she was able to articulate the information well to the entire class\
All good apart from small training room. Trainer very good.\
Really interesting and informative.  The trainer kept us interested throughout.\
This is on behalf of the colleagues which took part in the course and some quotes which they fed back to me regarding their experiences. Overall, all of the colleagues said how amazing the course was and one colleague saying 'I have done a few first aid courses before, but this one was the best i have ever done.' All of the colleagues have sad that the trainer Melvyn was fantastic with one colleague saying 'He was very friendly, knowledgable and didnt drone on when he talked and was really engaging when teaching us.' The whole experience made them very confident moving forward with their new responsibility as a first aider. They all thank the company for a great experience.\
Venue was clean and tidy but disorganised with teas and coffees, otherwise no issues\
The space was too small for 12 people, otherwise it was good. This was my 4th refresher training and up to the same standard.\
The two colleagues that I sent on the course enjoyed it, they said it was worth the three days Thank you\
This was the instructors first course. He had some difficulties with IT which were out of his control and the range of compency of the delegates was quite wide. Further experience in running this course would greatly enhance the course.\
a very approachable trainer. Has very good knowledge and was very hands on with the learing approach, which was brilliant. \
\
Tim Setter was a great trainer and course content was great with the mixture of learning and practical. Would recommend the course to everyone, thoroughly enjoyed it and learnt a lot and confident if I was called into action I would know what to do\
\
\
\
Superb trainer Matt Baker \'82\'c4\'ec approachable, supportive and adapted to various learning styles.  Good mix of theory and practical knowledge, so that it was interactive   Good dynamics of the group \
There was confusion at the venue as the delegates for the Green Cross Training Course were all sent to a training course for the Red Cross.   The Red Cross instructor was very apologetic as he had a room full of people who were not on his list of delegates!!      Our delegate returned to Reception to find out how many first aid courses were being held and the Receptionist advised him there was another course, but the instructor had not arrived.  The instructor finally arrived and the course commenced.\
The feedback from candidates was good and one candidate has done this training before and said this training was much better. Big thanks to the trainer who arrived promptly and was pleasant to deal with. Hope he can do our next course in september!\
I was put on a course where all the other participants were from Tesco . And were on a 3 day course so some of the stuff was rushed so that I got what I was there for on a 1day course . Surely it would be better to group all staff from company\'82\'c4\'f4s together and independent people together and 1 day courses together \
\
The course itself is excellent but I just felt it was a lot to take in over two days I think if the re-qualification was done over three days it would be less stressful, it would also give the trainer a bit more time to spend on each section I felt our trainer Paul having to rush through a few sections but hats not his fault, he was brilliant over the two days an very knowledgeable.\
I did not personally attend the course but my colleagues that did attend where very impressed with the trainer, said he made the day very fun and informative.\
very informative course helped by having a great trainer in Sarah Goss! also enjoyable. \
\
The trainer included a lot of role play involving real life situations , this made the course more interesting and more importantly help the trainees remember the course content. All the trainees feel more equiped to deal with situations and able to look pass the obvious. The trainer was very friendly and relaxed which made the trainees feel comfortable and confident to ask if they didnt understand . He was able to provide and encourage learning for all abilites in the group which was very mixed . Well done   \
disappointed that course was combined 1 and 3 days\
\
\
Darren was great - fast paced, punchy delivery. Only down side was the room air con wasn't working in our room so got very stuffy on a warm day. surprised in a high calibre venue\
The feedback was very good, with lots of involvement and interaction, good learning for development and getting a very good understanding of First Aid.  Everybody was able to take part and even though the seriouness of the course was adheared too, there was also fun element which put people at ease and sp they all got on together as a group.  Thank you to the Tutor.  \
I found the course very informative and covered just the right amount on First Aid I would need to administer.\
Feedback from the delegates was the trainer was great\
The room was rather small for 11 people and it was hot day Even though two windows were open to allow air flow  A couple of floor mounted fans would have been nice \
Found mark really approachable and his knowledge of first aid very good. Made the days enjoyable and the learning easier.\
\
Very good and worthwhile course.\
This information was provided to me by the candidates. they said they enjoyed the course . \
ALL THE COLLEAGES WHO WHEN ON THE COURSE THOUGHT THE TRAINER WAS EXCELLENT . HE WAS FRENDLY AND EXPLAINED THING WELL . \
GRITIT employees were very pleased with the day course this time around. Everyone took notes and passed on comments to the Compliance Manager. Trainer was also very engaging this time. \
For the people who had no experience with safety management it is very useful course. Trainer was creating positive atmosphere, but unfortunately rushed some things or even skipped them and on the other hand stay too long in other topics, not facilitating strongly and allowing participants to took over. He was also during the course dealing with his mails/job not related to training which I find very unprofessional.\
Sarah was a delight to have running the course she was very well knowledged in first aid which was brilliant and she kept the course fun all the time so there was never a dull moment we would have her back to do training sessions with members of staff any time.\
Trainer was brilliant & very knowledgeable, would highly recommend Green cross & Ken to anyone who was interested in learning 1st aid\
Participants seemed confident and knowledge with what was expected of them and appeared settled with the content. Instructor was friendly and chatty and was able to explain and demonstrate all the various techniques, situations necessary to perform tasks.\
\
\
The course was nice and relaxed and imformative.\
Would of liked to have looked at some of the case studies from the workbook rather than continually be given a story from the presenter relating to one of his experiences. Too many stories about his work experience in the hotel and festivals. Also his son, sister, brother got a bit much after day 1.     \
Absolutely worthed it. Very interactive and each participate had the chance to properly have a hands on practice on the dummies.   Definitely learnt a great deal and I highly recommend. Good delivery of the course by Phil Cooke who took his time in explaining everything be it through the manual guide, personal experience or videoes. We all had ample time to go through every nook and cranny of the course.   Very pleased!\
\
\
Length of course could be reduced. Trainer knowledge impeccable and easy to understand\
I missed the last day because of illness, but the book was very good and the trainer had great experience but didn't stick to the book missed all the case studies instead talked about his friends and family experience which got to be very off putting and not relevant\
I have NEVER received so much positive feedback following a course.  All the candidates thoroughly enjoyed the 2 days and have commented on how much they and others will benefit from their attendance.  I can not thank you enough! and already plan to make a number of recommendations.  We will definitely be running this course again! \
great man very detailed enjoyed.\
The course is excellent and the trainer was superb. Highly professional, kept everyone very engaged, gave the right breaks. My only feedback is that the first half was done at a suitable pace and the group covered everything on time and was well understood. I just felt the 2nd half and the latter part of the 2nd half was really rushed and I think this will be harder to recall if required. It felt the content was possibly to long or maybe we needed one more hour to cover everything to the same depth.\
Peter was very good \
\
Great trainer, very helpful and good at explaining and answerring any questions. Was an enjoyable training course\
The only concern the attendees had was that feedback forms were not anonymous and the trainer would know who had given negiative feedback. But other than that every one really enjoyed the experiance and gaining their new qualification.\
Overall the course was great. Trainer explained everything clearly and was patient with the group. The only concern we have is that we can not get access to the certificates as it will not except our store number and password, if you could contact the store with a solution that will be great\
Helen Toser is a fantastic trainer, she held our interest and kept the pace of learning steady and answered all questions that we had. \
feed back from the course was very positive , all the candidates enjoyed it \
We were delighted to have you coming in and train our staff in life saving procedures. We thank you for the professionalism and punctuality. The material and the trainer were very well understood and we will definitely book another training in the future when needed. Thank you very much.\
\
\
I've spoken with the candidates on the course, the trainer made the candidates feel at easy allowing them to build there confidence through the course. he was very knowledgeable and took time to answer any questions they had, even going down to understand the layout of the building to help with some of there query's.\
It is a well planned course that was well-delivered in an engaging manner by the Mark. \
\
I have attended a few train the trainer courses that just teach the subject this course was different we actually learnt how to teach it.  Thank you Tim for the opportunity to actually learn about a subject and feel confident to be able to teach it. Cant wait for the evac chair course and any other courses you are preparing  for.\
Carol took the time to not only show you how, but also explained why.\
Great course, trainer was very helpful, course materials are well written and concise. Would definitely recommend this course.\
\
\
Richard Hughes was our trainer. He kept everyone engaged and the delivery of the course was fantastic. I feel I personally learnt more on this course than I ever have previously.\
great course, good pace for all learners. superb venue to feel relaxed and calm. Really good instructor who kept it fun and informative and kept everyone's attention.\
Could really do with some real life scenario videos to make it more interesting.  You can only look at and read text on a slide on a screen for only a couple of minutes before it becomes uninteresting\
Staff reported that the course was more desk based than practical and felt that had more practical scenarios occurred it would have provided more confidence.  One member of staff suggested a roleplay technique that St Johns Ambulance use - that cards are provided to half the class giving a medical condition then that student acts out the symptoms and uses another student to identify, diagnose and treat condition.  He felt that this greatly helps when putting skills into practise. Perhaps this is something that could be taken into consideration\
Nothing but great feedback from all the staff who attended :-) \
The course was informative and the trainer was very patient and thorough.\
Julie M Simpson was fantastic. Would recommend this coarse and especially trainer Julie m Simpson\
The instructor was very knowledgeable. I got the chance to learn a lot from her and I now feel more confident as a First Aider. \
Excellent Trainer, Made it very enjoyable. \
The trainer should have identified the candidate as Suitable or otherwise towards the course ending and informed the colleague if they passed or failed and why\
\
\
\
It was a very well designed course, pace was good and training material was thorough. overall a really good experience.\
Overall very good. Great to get hands on instead of it only being theory. Carol was very kind and helpful and open to any questions. When correcting people, she did it in a very good way where the person did not feel bad for having said something incorrect. \
My colleague attended your course and her feed back was all good, clear instructions , clean room and friendly atmosphere. \
Couple of comments from our delegates; Charles Hawkes the trainer was fab. It was awesome.\
Room was very warm which I know you can't control but did make it a long day\
The course was enjoyed by all the staff and the trainer was very good\
I think the course was delivered in an easy to understand manner and everything was explained and demonstraited well.  Jo kept us focussed and intrested in her excellent delivery of the course.\
\
\
The course was relevant and made interesting  as a result of Mark's previous experiences as a paramedic.  As well as having the knowledge he was able to provide  real life examples to relate to the topics covered.\
Everyone commented that the Trainer was outstanding, nothing about the course was negative.\
\
its been a very educational. Enjoyed every day on the training course.\
Course was delivered very well, easy to understand and practical gave us the skills to feel more confident. \
The hole day went smoothly, everything was explained and shown professionally. Many thanks!\
An excellent course delivered by an excellent trainer, thank you.\
I RECEIVED EXCELLENT FEEDBACK FROM THE DELEGATES THAT ATTENDED THIS COURSE. THE OVERALL OPINION WAS THAT IT WAS MADE MORE INTERESTING THAN THEY EXPECTED. THE TRAINER WAS VERY ACCOMODATING, HE LET ME TAKE SOME PICTURES OF THE DELEGATES IN ACTION SO WE CAN CELEBRATE THEIR SUCCESS IN STORE.\
\
\
The training room was slightly uncomfortable due to it being warm without A/C or fans being available. \
Marc delivered the first aid course in a way that enabled all learners to learn. He was very knowledgable and taught well. We liked his style of teaching and will be requesting him on further training sessions.\
Richard was excellent. Really enjoyes the course.\
my colleagues enjoyed the course , they also learnt a lot \
Team found the course informative and enjoyable, they said that the practical parts were fun & those who have been certified for a number of years learned new skills so many thanks\
All Attendees enjoyed the course and found it very informative. George the instructor was very experienced and ran the course at a good pace so everyone understood very clearly.\
\
\
\
It was great practicing with colleagues where possible, the course was a good length \
\
as a one day course covered most of topics that i thought it would delivered in an understandable way by a knowledgeable instructor\
Nigel was very good, knows his stuff and made us all feel relaxed!\
Very good much better than my course 3 years ago as it had so much more content with CPR and the Defibs plus hepi pen.\
Very Informative course really enjoyed it\
Mal Sharpe was very professional in his role also supporting the candidates in their learning was happy to delay the start for few hours to allow a few extras to attend as some colleagues were unable to make it. overall very good and we would like Mal to return for future courses\
Trainer was really helpful and understading and the team all enjoyed the training sessions. great knowledge base and answered all our queries \
\
\
Excellent course!\
good course and great trainer\
All first aiders enjoyed the course.\
the candidates have fed back that sometimes they found the trainers instructions hard to follow and would of like more time doing the practical\
As always very polite and friendly trainers, easy to book. Due to low numbers the trainer and Greencross still went ahead and trained,what a wonderful company.\
Dan, reported the trainer geared some of the training specifically to our industry and gave advice about the first aid kit content which was very good.\
Well run course, , relaxed setting good for learning.\
Well run, the trainer kept it interesting and gave plenty of real life examples so it was relevant. He was also reassuring in what we could do as first aiders and what is realistic. Very funny too! Course materials good - lots of slides and clips along with the presentation and various things to use including CPR dummies, bandages, training epi pens and training AEDs. \
I found the course very informative and our trainer Sarah O'Neill was fantastic. Good fun and really knows her stuff. \
I have been attending First Aid courses for over 20 years.  This time was as a new recruit as my certificate ran out and no renewal course was available in time.  We did not, in my opinion do enough CPR practice.  We had a try on day one and then the second try was the actual test at the end.\
great course, good trainer\
\
\
All my colleagues enjoyed the course traininer friendly and helpful and made them feel valued \
\
Very good course, trainer very friendly approachable and knowledgeable!\
I felt the course was very thorough and gave staff a real insight to what responsibilities we have as a food handler. \
Brilliant! Jo Walker was fab, plenty of clear concise content. Nothing was too much for her, she answered every question in a way we could all understand. I feel i learned lots without feeling swamped.  Thanks Jo!\
We all found the course very informative, helpfull and interesting. I am hoping from this that there is a fresh enthusiasm and willingness to keep First Aid on the agenda at all times. It was also good fun and never felt boring or lacking interset.\
\
\
excellent course the guys had a great time and trainer was brilliant would recommend phillip for future courses\
Well run course, good content and put over to us in a excellent manner. Reuben knew his subject and his import was interesting and informative. If e have another course would recommend Reuben again please.\
Good course with a good mixture of attendees all of whom contributed to it being enjoyable\
We really enjoyed the course and I feel much more comfortable and confident at the prospect of undertaking first aid in the workplace thanks to the training.  Sean provided an excellent balance of training and real life examples of the issues that could arise and how we may have to react.  The training material and course content was spot on for our needs and the amount of practical's done over the 3 days has helped make things second nature.  I look forward to undertaking more training in the future and wouldn't hesitate to recommend Green Cross Training.   \
Re Trainer Jonathon Haslam He made the course exception, the content and how it was deliver to everyone taking part he made it very interesting and enjoyable to learn. A big thank you Kind Regards Martin Winfield\
I felt the trainer make it seem like you could relate to what he was talking about rather than reading just the text. \
\
Our trainer Charles Hawkes clearly has extensive knowledge of first aid and is a credit to Greencross. His approach kept everyone focused and interested. Speaking on behalf of all learners, we throughly enjoyed the course and feel competent to carry out first aid going forward. Many thanks.\
Course was very informative and a good refresher for us.  We covered everything at a good pace and the trainer was very knowledgeable.  The room we were in was perhaps a bit small for the practical aspects of the course and we didn't have a table on the 2nd day which made it difficult to fill in our workbooks.\
I enjoyed teh course and Mat tBull was clear and engaged wit hteh group which made the training enjoyable and informative.\
\
\
The trainer was extremely knowledgeable - we enjoyed the course even though it was a serious subject.  I feel equipped again.  Thank you,\
\
\
\
All of our colleagues had an incredible time on the first aid course. Chris Beal was extremely engaging, patient and informative with his teaching style. Any problems or questions we had, he took his time to answer them and if he didn't know an answer straight away, he made sure to find one by the end of the day for us. He left us feeling prepared and full of understanding regarding the responsibilities of a first aider and the procedures we are meant to follow.\
Feedback from one of our delegates.......This is the first 2 day refresher course I have attended , prior to my expiry of my certificate , and I found it to be at a good pace and a great refresher on parts of the course that I hadn\'82\'c4\'f4t had the need to use much. In addition , the trainer (Alex MacDonald) was excellent and the most engaging I have experienced from the 15 years I have been doing this. I would recommend trying to get him for every course if possible.\
Karen was very good and landed the course in the right manor and audience level. All the team really enjoyed her style.\
Amalgamated Comments from 4 Essex County Council Attendees  The Trainer Very good, he knew the material and could demonstrate the techniques.  He engaged the class and gave useful feedback. The trainer was an independent trainer who was used by Greencross so he did not know their admin process. E.g. how long the certificates would take to come.  Training Materials Not all the contents delivered by the trainer are included in the manual booklet (it was only a small section). The material was good but as the course was three days material delivered in two days some parts had to be rushed. Better if the material could be reworked to match two day course. Getting the course papers only a week before did cause problems with some delegates as they were on leave. Fortunately I was able to forward them via non-ECC routes. We had to ask for them. The mannequins we practised CPR on doesn\'82\'c4\'f4t seem to be as good quality as the ones provided by St John Ambulance, they were difficult for us to give mouth-to-mouth CPR to. The trainer had to reconfigure the mannequins before we could successfully complete the CPR.  The Venue/Room The training room is quite small for 13 course attendees (in comparison to the previous training we had from another provider). For some practical exercise, we had to practice in small groups instead of in pairs which could have saved some time otherwise.  The room allocated in the training centre was small, for the number of attendants. It did get stuffy in there. The training room was too small for the number of delegates and very hot and stuffy. We had the fire door open so could hear the trains on the main line about 30m away. I found the training centre easily.  Refreshments There were no free refreshments (The only free refreshments is water).  Hygiene We were given Tesco antibacterial surface spray and paper towel to wipe the mannequins for practise mouth-to-mouth CPR and were advised there is no need to use a face shield. With the mannequins being shared between the course attendees, it\'82\'c4\'f4s not very hygienic because the antibacterial spray doesn\'82\'c4\'f4t kill viruses.  Also, it is not ideal for the spray to be in directly contact with our mouths.  Course Admin We were asked to complete two feedback forms, one in our workbook and one on a separate sign-up sheet. We also had to duplicate details such as name, address etc. \
Staff enjoyed the 3 day course wuth George. Feel very well educated in dealing with first aid response.\
I was very confused with the pack sent to our store. I filled out the information about the students as if I was the trainer. I think it would be a good idea to put a note into the package stating it is for the trainer of the course or something that makes a little more clarity. However Nigel was very understanding of my mistake and rectified the issue seamlessly.\
The feedback from the team that took part in the course was really positive. The team were particularly impressed with Jess. They said she had a really good way of explaining things and made the training easy to understand in a relaxed environment.\
All the colleagues said they enjoyed the first aid training.  They learnt alot and enjoyed the training session as  George  who held the training was interesting and kept the class fun..\
great course great trainer. made it easy for everyone in there, kept a comfortable enviroment.\
\
Everyone one I have spoken to said the course was fun and informative. They thought the trainer kept it interesting with humour and depth of knowledge. Some people said there was a lot to learn in 1 day. Generally - very good. Thanks\
Having spoken to several of the course participants I know that everyone thoroughly enjoyed the course. They were impressed with how much information Sarah had taught them over the 3 days and in a way that kept them all interested. \
\
The course was delivered at a good peace and will delivered\
Excellent coures, Jackie Holden brought lots of examples, and storeies and her own personal flair to the course and a number of the team had mentioned this. Thoroughly enjoyed. Thankyou.\
Tracey delivered the course to a high standard ensuring all candidates were involved and were confident in dealing with first aid in the future.  \
Tracey delivered the course to a high standard ensuring all candidates were involved and were confident in dealing with first aid in the future.  \
great informative course - course content was delivered in a clear and concise manner with ease and clear understanding.\
informative, interactive and fun course which was presented excellently and professionally\
\
Very informative and enjoyable experience. \
\
Some of the info on the slides was irrelevant as you don't learn about pulse on the course but it was referred to on the slides.  the course only needed o be 2 days and felt a bit dragged out\
The course really informative  and Richard the trainer was really engaging and sincere,   The only negative was the location chosen as the hotel on the Albert Dock was hard to find and the refreshments on offer quite basic, \
Helen was amazing yet again\
I always have nothing but praise for the trainers and lynn fleming who helps me book these sessions for ur colleagues, just wonderful.\
Very good course Jeff was knowledgeable and approachable kept the day moving and within timescales. 12 attended 7 had previously attended courses and one of them fed back it was the best she had done.\
Fantastic Feedabck from everyone involved!\
The colleagues that attended this course have all fed back to me that it was outstanding. Dot was very informative and knowledgeable and would correct errors if she saw them. Very happy colleagues!\
Charles was very knowledgeable & judged the crowd perfectly. \
\
very good one day course. Ross was a good trainer and the course was well paced.\
Due to unknown or undisclosed reasons, our original trainer couldn't attend the first 2 days. We had a non-Green Cross trainer, who whilst being very good, taught us methods and information which was directly contradicted by the Green Cross trainer on the 3rd day. This left many in the classroom feeling confused. To be clear, both trainers were excellent, but they were teaching slightly different things.  In addition, the venue was terrible. Cramped and unheated, wobbly furniture, toilets which hadn't been cleaned or restocked in what looked like weeks, and dirty crockery for teas and coffees.   I've been very pleased with all of the Green Cross courses I've attended previously, but if I was paying for this course instead of my employer, I would have been looking for a partial refund.\
\
Course went well and to timescales. The fire extinguishers were not delivered/provided for the course so I had to use our own. Russell did say that we had sent a message to Green Cross Training to make sure we got replacements.....we used 2 x CO2 extinguishers and 2 x water extinguishers.\
Very good course  \
Great course and Andy was engaging. After looking at the book (and remembering from previous courses), there wasnt much covering eye injuries apart from flushing. Is it still good practice with embedded items in the eye to cover both of them to reduce/lower eye movement  \
Thank you \
\
The trainer was excellent- his knowledge and the way he put over the training for different abilities was first class. An enjoyable course. \
Helen was an very good teacher. All the students have only good things to say about her. We will have her again next week for the next course, we very much look forward to it.\
Good, venue, makes a change to some of the previous ones which had been very poor.  Trainer made course interesting & kept your attention.\
Julie is an excellent trainer and works extremley well with all our colleagues. She is informative and keeps the course interesting and enjoyable as well as educating everyone.\
just a little frustated that the trainer can be late but when the colleagues are late due to traffic they are sent home when he would have only doen the booking in.\
Candidates commented on how engaging the trainer was. They all thoughroughly enjoyed the course and feel confident on offering first aid.\
\
Leila was a very good trainer\
The trainer Mark Blackham was really good, he made the course fun and interesting and kept our focus, and was extremely helpful.\
Excellent trainer very personable and knowledgeable. \
books a little small for ease of working through material.  Can't remember if we covered stroke victims & F.A.S.T. but I've looked that up before the course.  Overall good day's training/effective. \
\
\
\
\
I thought this course was the best I have attended, over the last 20 year I have completed training every 3 years so I have a lot of experience of these courses. Please thank Gary for an excellent day.  \
Perhaps more valuable content.\
Bart's a lovely person, very polite, warm and friendly. Green Cross didn't send the extinguishers which meant to sort this out I couldn't leave on time to another meeting. I'm not sure showing a US fire video is relevant (and which is conducted outdoors) but certainly not the Bradford Disaster. This was a distressing thing to be shown, particularly as some of us may have had relatives present, ditto the image of the World Trade Centre. \
HAVING SPOKEN WITH COLLEAGUES WHO ATTENDED THE COURSE I HAVE BEEN TOLD IS WAS A VERY INFORMATIVE COURSE AND BEST ONE THEY HAD BEEN ON.  THE TRAINER MADE IT FUN BUT ALSO VERY PROFESSIONAL.   THANK YOU\
\
Train the trainer event which was well run and enjoyed by all participants. Thank you for an interesting an informative day.\
Great course , made learning a serious subject fun!\
\
\
\
\
All our collegues Enjoyed the course, it was very informative.Thank you  \
.\
The whole team really enjoyed the 3 day course and the trainer was fantastic and communicated clearly and with interest. Thank you.\
I wasn\'82\'c4\'f4t looking forward to this training as I had done a 2 day course with yourselves a few years ago and found it to be dull and boring with very aggressive and uninspiring course tutors, Jess however was great she was energetic and engaging I had a really good day and picked up the skills I needed , Ace.\
Jack was a great trainer. He delivered the course at the right level and obviously has a wealth of experience to share. Very enjoyable and gave me the confidence I need to feel I am more prepared now should the situation arise Thanks very much \
jo walker was fantastic. didnt make the course boring or drag through the day. shared stories and videos that really hit home. a fantastic 2 day course\
There were far too many requirements to repeatedly enter the same personal information. Additionally this is the 3rd feed back form I have completed as well. \
Louise was great, involved everyone attending, checked understanding and ensured we were leaving with the knowledge and confidence to deal with any incidents.\
\
\
\
Excellent trainer and course bringing me uptodate with first  aid and use of defibrillator \
\
\
Loved it!!  Thank you. Tim was great at allowing questions and answering them well. xx\
Excellent course\
A great course presented professionally and with great experience\
A thoroughly enjoyable and rewarding course.\
\
The course was delayed nearly an hour as the trainer had too many people in attendance. He did not have a complete list of names of who he should have in the room and it took various phone calls to move people to different trainers. It was a shambles. Room was too small also. Plus side, the trainer was excellent. \
the trainer could have presented hime self  better with his dress code.\
Very Good information and Knowledge.\
\
excellent course and tutor\
The videos were very useful and the role play good to do, thank you for the course and the new skills learnt \
Very useful training. \
The course was engaging and interactive. However, for someone with no previous First Aid experience it would be difficult to feel confident at using the knowledge and put it into practice after just a 1 day course. More practical activities and a longer course or more days would be my recommendation.\
The course was really good and engaging, I enjoyed the practical tasks. The only thing I would suggest would be to have a few more videos in between just to hold engagement.\
I thoroughly enjoyed the course. I learnt new skills which could be very important in certain situations and life skills which I can keep topping up every three years. The trainer was very good and made the course enjoyable, and at times funny. The facilities were also good. \
Good hands on practical exercises. Clear information and instructions.\
The instructor was very friendly and helpful, and enjoyed the course \
Very good course\
\
I feel as though there were too many breaks in the session, more content could of been provided it was almost 2hrs out of 6.5 that the candidates were not doing anything.\
covered all the information but more focusing on reading information from the slides  great course overall \
The 1 day course felt a tad rushed at times as there was lots of information to absorb and learn. The Tesco venue was a too small for 9 people. Overall the trainer was knowledgeable and presented his subject well. \
\
Kris was very informative and engaging.  Lovely to meet someone at the forefront of medical emergencies who was all too willing to convey what works and what does not !!! Thoroughly enjoyed the day and hope that we get to see him again in the not too distant future (but not as a medical emergency obviously) !! best regards ~DT   \
\
\
Kris was excellent. The fact that he is a paramedic, is ex-army and had had his own life-threatening experiences added some real-life interest.\
Great content & delivery. Jon's light-hearted humour helped to re-iterate the points made.\
\
\
ok\
The course was really good. however, the reason we requested this course was so we could have additional training on more site specific injuries. which we feel didn't meet our needs as best as we had hoped. We all also stated that we would like site specific at the start of our course. the trainer explained that he has to go through his syllabus but would try to focus on more site specific areas. This was fair enough and it was good to brush up on all other areas so the majority of the team were fairly happy. I did however have a couple of staff talk to me about the trainer making them feel slightly uncomfortable with some of his comments, hence having to send this feedback. so based on that, plus that we wanted a more focused injury course, this is why the overall rating was only 3 stars. \
The trainer did a great job everyone attending really enjoyed the course\
Toilets were incredibly difficult to exit from. I thing the architect must have been a wafer thin person to actually get out of the toilet.  Teas and coffees were served late in the afternoon following Eileen's request.  \
Very interesting and fun Lots of information \
I think Julie did a truly wonderful job.  Kept us motivated, interested and the whole two days just flowed.  A sign of a great trainer in my book.  Fiona\
\
The trainer was really good and very knowledgeable. As a refresher course it was good to go over the 'basics' of first aid and to practice something that I haven't had to use in three years since being trained. \
Course was cancelled  As i have booked several sessions of the same course, from my prospective it would have been better to have had the same tutor for consistency.\
\
Debate  on whether  mouth to mouth resuscitation should be used; seems to depends on the course/ organisation  that you attend.  Some more details/ further anecdotes linking to the course material would be good. \
none \
\
the trainer we had Mark Blackham delivered the course superbly, kept things interesting and delivered all the key points very well with everybody on the course feeding back how good he was and how much they enjoyed it and how much they learned.  I would defiantly have Mark back to do another course for me.  Thanks ian\
\
Jeff was fantastic, very engaging and made the course fun. Easily the best first aid course I have attended.\
Very easy process to book a course - love the on line ability to access attendees etc.\
Interesting \
All good..\
Great course, location was the only downside. Traffic was really bad. Worked alot better when it was in antrim depot as was closer to north west stores.\
Thought course was very good, well presented, with confident, knowledgable trainer. Some of the training books seemed to be different issues, with page numbers not corresponding to test papers etc\
\
Well delivered course. Trainer encouraged questions and feedback throughout the session.\
\
Excellent trainer, got info over well , nice pace, and all enjoyed course. Great interaction. Look forward to next time.\
It was a short course - much shorter than those I've taken in the past. However, it still covered what I believe to be the necessary knowledge and the trainer provided a good learning environment to enjoy the course in.\
excellent trainer\
\
\
Very knowledgeable Trainer with an excellent tutorial style. Mr Dewhursts delivery kept everybody involved with the Course content and made Learning the subject enjoyable.\
I preferred completing the booklet instead of having a final exam, which is what I have normally experienced.  I thought the trainer was really good. The way he was able to link what we were learning to past experiences he had was beneficial.\
Although I believe the course was to a high standard, as a new employee I do not have anything to compare the course to and therefore my opinion may not be accurate.\
\
I found the course really useful, it covered the right topics in the right level of detail to be able to remember the key points and carry out the role of a first aider. I actually learnt some new information on this course that I hadn't previously learnt on the 3 day course.\
Enjoyable day. Very interesting and useful information.\
first rate delivery of course content in a style that kept the whole class interested. Only issue was issues with controlling the classroom temperature.\
Mark was an excellent trainer and demonstrated passion for fire safety.  The course was good and exactly what we needed here.\
Trainer was very helpful and made the learning fun even though it is quite a serious subject. Communicated well with all colleagues. \
would be nice if course held somewhere with better lunch options in the small 30min window we had to find some\
\
The Trainer kept my attention and kept me interested and engaged in a subject that is not one of my favourites. Well Done Karen\
Richard showed outstanding presentation skills using his vast experience to impart practical general first aid advice. The correct balance of humour and pathos was used proving it to be an entertaining day out. \
Very good course and left me confident to use the skills I learnt\
very good course \
\
It was a good course, trainer had good knowledge about the course. It would really help if more practicals are included for each session/ day also few videos which relates to the particular subject being covered.\
\
Very friendly and informative trainer. Made the teaching interactive and engaging. Also made time to answer questions that weren't directly covered in the training.\
\
I feel confident after this course. The location was difficult to get to & limited space.\
The course was run in a Tesco training room in the middle of Manchester causing difficulty getting to the course and expensive parking/ no parking for my large van I had to catch the train in. This comment in no way reflects against the actual course just the venue selected by Tesco of which only 2 attendees sat the course. Lighting was when watching the presentation video due to no way to block out external light no blinds or curtains.\
The course was well run with a good trainer.  The one thing i would change is that he provides anti-bacterial, rather than baby wipes, to clean the dummies to practice the CPR as this would be more hygienic for mouth to mouth.\
Excellent course excellent trainer our trainees thoroughly enjoyed the course and look forward to being first aiders thankyou\
a all round good 1 day course,  \
Great venue but there were too many people in the one room. Two courses were held in the same room and the space to move around was limited.\
The course was very well run and presented. My only criticism is that the room was too small for the amount of people being trained. There were 24 students but the room was only suitable for around 12.\
The trainer managed to keep the course informative and entertaining, it kept the attention of the group and was welcomed by the delegates.\
An excellent course, intense but very interesting.  Mark was able to make a very serious subject interesting.  Would happily recommend the course to my colleagues.\
\
The training room was very small and cramped and dirty\
Colleagues on the course found the course very informative and helpful. The trainer was patient and informative. The pace of the course moved well and all training was completed on time. \
Excellent Course - best First Aid course I have been on.\
good quality course great instructor kept us all engaged\
A really good day, course was set at a good pace and easy to follow and understand. Trainer was enthusiastic and had a good knowledge of the subject.\
Another high quality course delivered and the instructor Ken was superb.\
\
Enjoyed the course, Had 2 trainers , Carol and Roy who I believe both stepped in at the last moment which was most appreciated , they were both very good \
\
I am a first aider and found the changes to the way to do cpr etc intresting, a suggestion would be to use the pictures/info from the supplied book on the presentations so if we use the book it gives a back up to the course i.e. I can remember seeing that on the screen . on my course we didn't even look at the booklet supplied\
Although I've done 1st aid before, this course was a good refresher.\
A thoroughly enjoyable and informative course.\
The only issue we all had, was the room was very cold. we found during a break the doors to the roof were ajar, so closing the curtains helped with heat retention.\
All staff thought that the course was very informative & that the trainer delivered it really well\
Course was great and trainers made it easy to understand and remember. Hotel - the reception staff tried to refuse to let us bring in any food or drinks. Said it must be purchased from the hotel. First person said sit out of sight round the corner and 2nd said throw it away or leave building. Not what you would expect from a large hotel.\
\
On the 2nd days training I asked a question about a first aiders culpability the subject was to remove an object from a patients chest to get them into recovery pos.His response was demeaning and aggressive he implied I must have been kicked off other courses and that all my previous training was sub standard despite me having FPOSI. I didn't put this in the review sheet on the course end as I knew he would have no problem reading it aloud to the class.im sure if other students were asked about the incident they would corroborate my story questions met with ridicule and aggression\
I wasn't present on the day so I asked delegates for their feedback. As the GCT feedback forms weren't anonymous, my delegates said they gave a higher rating than they wanted in order to be able to leave the room easily. They found the delivery monotonous and read from a script. The workbook answers were easily available and copied. \
I wasn't present on the day so I asked the colleagues for feedback, which conflicted; one delegate said the course was good with a knowledgeable trainer whilst other colleagues told me that the trainer was not familiar with the IT side and required a huge amount of support and assistance in setting up which took them away from other duties to help her. \
m\
Jo was wonderful fantastic coach. Some venues not in centre of Manchester as traffic can cause major problems, one day took 2.5 hours to get there.\
I have had very good feedback from all the participants that attend the course. They all said that the content was well delivered and in a constantly interesting manner, and could they please book the trainer  for all future courses!! Please pass their thanks on to him\
Very friendly and informative tutors thank you\
a most enjoyable , insightful course well presented .\
\
As this was my first 'FIRST AID' course I was happy with the knowledge & expertise shown by the trainers & the aids for what little practical participation we had to do. However I feel that the course was quite compact & covered a lot of theory and did not allow for a great deal of time for questions & fell that more practical sessions would have been of more benefit e.g. bandage application.  \
Very Informative and an enjoyable course.  Thank you Carol for your help and support during the course.\
Having over many years attended regular Emergency Aid training courses (renewable every 3 years) with a number of suppliers   I believe this to be the best yet. Course trainer was also excellent.\
Super condensed and still really helpful training delivered well. Thanks.\
I found the trainer was very good at keeping peoples attention and got the information across very well\
Very very slow to receive certificate and service when enquiring about the certificate not great at all. A good course has been marred by this\
\
I had some great feedback from the Sandhurst Day Centre, they all were very pleased with the training and would definitely recommend the training to others. All my feedback back forms rated Reuben and the first aid training a good solid 10 with a few who rated it overall 9.   Thank you!\
A good engaging approach to presenting the material and was keen to personalise the content to our needs.\
\
all good \
Based on the feedback received from the people on the course, the content seemed jumbled up - there was no flow about resuscitation. The trainer was eating throughout the three days - sausage rolls, crisps, chocolate - this is really not what I would have expected to happen during the course. On Day 1, Sam made comments about Jacqueline from Green Cross Training in front of the group - this was unprofessional. There was not enough recapping to embed the knowledge. Lots of acronyms. He did keep the group entertained and engaged. \
Was delivered well by the tutor, in a relaxed environment making it easier to focus on learning.  Should have been a group size of 12 however only 6 turned up but colleagues felt this worked better allowing the individual time with the tutor if they struggled.  \
Trainer was excellent, really knowledgeable and was able to bring his own experience into play which made the teaching much more interesting and relevant.  Right balance between encouraging discussion and teaching the topics.  I rated the trainer so highly I will ask Green Cross if he can come to do Fire Marshall training onsite at my company.   \
The trainer's style of delivery enabled the subject matter to be easily understood and made it enjoyable. There was a good mix of practical and theory  work.\
\
n/a\
Green Cross training has helped me so much as a people trainer to help get all my store managers and shift leaders trained up.Angela in the office booking my courses the lady is amazing so helpful and caring.Jackie the trainer is so easy to  be around and really does deliver a great session.My Store managers done a 3 day courses with Jackie they were amazed at her knowledge but also how much fun and enjoyment  she brought to the session.Please pass on a big Thank You to these two very special Ladies.\
Not 100% sure the videos etc were very professional. Eg. children in a manufacturing environment not ideal format\
Trainer really good, showed us and explained really well. \
\
\
Very informative course that has provided me with confidence and knowledge in first aid. \
Lee was fantastic. i think i learnt more on his 1 day course than i've learnt in any first aid course before.\
The feedback I got was very positive \
\
As an existing first aider - I found the material very basic and aimed more at those with no experience of First Aid courses previously.  Training delivery was very good. Trainer was patient and happy to spend time with those who perhaps struggled at times.\
The course was well presented, Marc was a great trainer and very knowledgeable we worked on the key areas to his satisfaction, I think his time could have been managed better as we where unable to spend adequate time on the latter stages of the course I would have liked more time with the bandaging as it was spoke about without any practical time added. It was a very relaxed course I am happy overall\
courses are always well run with a high pass rate for my staff\
\
Julia paced the course just at the right level.  She kept it interesting and light and interesting.\
I really enjoyed the first aid course it was very informative and I feel very confident to use the skills that Jo Walker has taught me. I would recommend using Green Cross again for future courses. I had no concerns regarding the course, the only suggestion I have is for Green Cross to continue the coaching techniques currently in place. Many Thanks   \
having the insights of a paramedic definately made the course more credible. Phil picked up on different people's learning abilities and adjusted well.  I think I speak for all in attendance when I say we left feeling a lot more knowledgable and confident.\
unfortunately I picked up the wrong course notes on leaving the events , so if possible could you please supple me a copy of the correct notes thanks\
The room provided for the course was not fit for purpose\
Jo was confident and knowledgeable explained things in a way that could be understood by all  \
classroom could have done with some small desks to allow you to write on. apart from that course was very good. \
Never got any confirmation that I was checked in.Emailed Stewart never heard back.Very hard to use site on mobile version.very poor over all\
well run course, Dave delivered the content well and kept it interesting\
Jill and her husband Neil were brilliant! Couldn't fault them and made us feel all at ease. Really good content, the only thing I would suggest is that there is more scenario based exercises and more opportunities to practise the Recovery position and CPR on adults/babies/infants.   Also, aside from the trainers as they were brilliant. I think the amount you pay for the course you should get lunch included. We also were not due to get any tea or coffee until the trainers had to ask the venue for it!\
The course was good in many ways. The venue made it difficult to practice physically, although we did. It might be better to try to separate 3 day courses from 1 day courses. The instructor could do more mid-session revision, such as 'What is primary survey', 'What does AVPU stand for?', etc. Because the room was so small, the instructor chose not to have the projector which heats the room up. Overall, good.\
Really useful course, presented well and brought in lots of useful practical examples\
\
\
All attendees were very satisfied with the training overall (content, material, trainer, etc.). The trainer had the knowledge and was able to pass it, he was  informative, explained everything clearly, and it was easy for everyone to prepare for the exam.\
\
\
Excellent trainer and content. Venue was little poor.\
Well presented  and informative.\
\
Good course and the trainer made it engaging and interesting\
This review is based on the feedback from the staff who attended the course.  \
Content was great, materials were a little off as some of the handbooks didn't match page numbers with the tests. Tony was amazing though. Great experience, loads of examples to share and good rapport building.\
\
I did find the size of the group too large for the premises, normally when I have done courses like this the size of the group was around 8 yesterday there was 19 people including the trainers in the room.\
The participants said the course was good and practical, that the trainer had excellent subject knowledge and imparted it with a good humour that made the learning enjoyable.\
\
\
\
\
The only down side was the actual venue for the course. It was held in a room that contained Tesco's servers and network cabinet, This all had to be kept cool so aircon systems made the room very cool for the delegates and the trainer.\
Disappointing course. Will be looking for a more professional course next time and will avoid Green Cross. Although trainer was friendly and engaging, the actual course content could have been covered in a 1/2 day session - without all the Tesco anecdotes. Considering course was a necessary for work, the fact that the trainer did not check that all delegates fully understood and followed the correct 1st aid  process during practical assessments and an 'automatic pass' (with help) for a Health and Safety certification is a huge concern. Overpriced for location and facilities (No tea, coffee or lunch supplied)\
\
Gorege Staff the trainer was very good mafe everything clear . could ask any questiones and he answered all. Went over things if needed. plenty of materials for all for practise . I came away from the course feeling confident and able to practise First aid in store whenever needed. \
\
The course and the trainer were a really good fit. Educational and flowed well. Although the venue was very basic and could have done with being cleaned occasionally as a lot of time was spent sitting or laying on the floor.\
\
\
Excellent course very good trainer !\
\
\
\
My girls were really enthusiastic in the way the course was run and although a refresher course they felt that they learned quite a lot so well done to the trainer as they found her very relaxed and knowledgeable\
very good course, very good trainer. it was informative and interesting and fun.\
well presented and explained course enabling the content to be covered in an easy to understand way .\
The trainer, Julie was absolutely fantastic. She led the course well, kept us interested and really helped me to learn and retain the information. By far the best first aid course I have attended. Ones in the past have been boring and I haven't retained everything.\
Ive recieved really positive feedback from the colleagues who attended the course. It was great that we could do it on site as due to the amount of colleagues we had (9) it was really beneficial from a logistics point of view.  Thx again Hilary Jackson People  & safety Manager \
Tim Hassall was a very engaging instructor by far the best 1st aid course I've been on\
too many people booked onto the course so we were 30 mins late starting but the trainer still didn't push on and cut out some of his anecdotes meaning the last hour was very rushed and I thought that was unfortunate. \
\
the traininer was good with the colleagues but rude with two of the managers and complianed about the room, but the room we used we all ways use.\
It would be nice to have a pdf copy of the certificate.\
Birmingham is an awful place to get to, it took me over two hours from Stafford!\
\
Mark who held the course knew exactly what he was talking about, none of us got bored and we learnt so much.\
Well run course and the level of content was just right for me for the time given to complete the course\
\
Carol was a great teacher, I have amazing recall of so much!  I was doing a BodyPump class last night and thinking through the scenarios of something happening in the class and what I would do.  I feel so much more confident to help out when a situation arises.  The venue was quite tired, but good for me traveling from Sevenoaks.  Would be good to have some biscuits with the coffee, I did like that they served cream with the coffee as well as milk!  Please pass my thanks on to Carol, to remind her - I was the very tall one!\
There were new course manuals but there were two versions of it so there was a discrepancy between the assessment sheet page numbers and the manuals and there were some content differences between them.  Julie did a great job of making it much more interesting than courses done before.\
I found the course a great refresher after having had the 3 day course last year. I was very useful.\
Room too small.  I have still not received my certificate. \
We found that this course was aimed at adult first aid rather than paediatric. We wanted to know more about relevant situations that would occur for us in a nursery setting, such as: impalements, hands on practising with bandaging, eye injuries. Although we covered various aspects it was short & sweet yet we spent a very long time looking at slides & presentations on the workings of the heart etc. For our newer staff this time could have been better spent doing practical learning.\
Feed back from staff was good . \
Great course .. Great trainer. Venue could have been a lot better.\
On a scale to 1-10 the candidates would collectively rate the course 9.5.  The trainer was 'really good' especially with our deaf colleague and the candidates appreciated that the trainer came fully equipped with 'dummies' etc for them to practice with.  They enjoyed the experience. \
\
\
i really enjoyed the course and found it really worth will and I do believe a lot of that was down to the trainer bill who was great \
useful up to date information ie. contact numbers, how to use community defib \
This course focussed heavily on broad 'explanations' through video of various mental health conditions in highly simplified terms .  As a first aider I would expect that anyone taking this course would have some understanding of these conditions and prior knowledge.   I was hoping for a more focussed, professional approach to clearly explain protocol and best practice as a Mental Health First Aider in the workplace.    In addition, the trainer Mr Evans also made some highly inappropriate, unacceptable comments about his 'ex girlfriend's nice fake boobies' as well as a lot of over-sharing and non-stop anecdotes about his time in the military.    Unfortunately I would not recommend this course although I found it useful meeting other professionals on the course to share knowledge and experience with.  In addition, the Psychosynthesis Trust is an excellent venue and the course handbooks are useful reference points.\
The Trainer was extremely knowleagable in this Field, and kept us interested with both practical and theoretical situations. I would recommend this course! Well Done!\
It's really good that you give first aiders the opportunity to refresh their skills and knowledge\
We had to fill out two course feedback forms on the day and now I am being asked to complete an on line feedback form. Surely one is enough! The room was to small. The trainer was by far the best I have had on a first Aid course. Andy Spiggott top man.\
The trainer was excellent and taught in interesting and  informative manner which held the attention and the retention of the knowledge  \
Tea / coffee was 50p a cup and needed correct change. Pre advise would be good.\
Please can you change the contact name for our store to Tomas Mortimer not David Moulton.  Thankyou \
Great refresher course and the trainer was excellent. She kept everyone engaged and explained everything in detail.\
Very good course.\
I thought the trainer made the course interesting and now I feel confident in dealing with a situation we covered  \
\
\
\
\
The trainer knowledge was extremely poor. This was my 5th FAW course and by far the worst I've been on. The trainer was not prepared, did not know his slides and taught us quite a few things that contradicted with the information given in the manual. The whole group lost faith in him and ended up researching a lot of the stuff online ourselves. Few examples: He got the arteries and veins definitions wrong, apparently veins carry oxygenated blood. He demonstrated recovery position wrong the first time and had to redo it. Could not demonstrate how to do a sling, so he left that part out and didn't get us to practice. His most popular comment within the group was 'sugar does not give you energy, it is fat!'. He even managed to change the chemical structure of sugar from being a carbohydrate to a fat!  I'm surprised how he is even allowed to teach and has never been evaluated. \
Excellent course and trainer, many thanks.\
great course however venue was poor old cold smelly room no facilities for tea of coffee no parking \
An interesting and engaging trainer and a course with plenty of content and practical stuff - a good day.\
The course content, and trainer was excellent, but the venue wasn't ideal, there was a childrens nursery in another room, which was distracting, no tables to use, so we were writing on our laps, no proper facilities, but apart from the venue, the course was excellent.\
Great trainer with a really good delivery\
\
My marks are lower than 10 on account of the venue. The room was clean and fit for purpose and the staff were helpful and polite. However, there was no coffee or tea on arrival, I did ask for a coffee and had to pay for the coffee from my own pocket. I would have expected tea and coffee to be supplied at this point. Tea and coffee was supplied at other times throughout the course. There was no food available at the venue for lunch. I did take a 20 minute walk to town for a sandwich, but I would have liked some prior warning that there was  no tea or coffee on arrival and no food available. I'm not sure if this is the venue's responsibility or that of the course planning.\
Really professionally delivered training. To a good standard and at a level everyone could understand. Explained clearly and fully anything we asked about and gave time for everyone to learn. \
\
\
had great feedback from numerous colleagues. They all enjoyed themselves and said how wonderful the trainer was.\
The course was held at the Rodneys Hotel in Clifton Bristol.  I found the course both interesting and informative.  Tony's style of training was very relaxed and enjoyable keeping my attention throughout.  However the room was a little on the small side for the amount of people on the course.  The chairs were very uncomfortable to sit on for long periods of time and there are no parking facilities at the hotel and practically no on street parking available so all the delegates had to park about a mile away and walk.\
\
Trainer was probably the best I'd had on a first aid course\
very good and worthwhile\
Good course, well delivered.\
The Trainer Paul Greenall did get the occasional thing wrong, for example the difference between veins and arteries. Other than that he was very knowledgeable and came across very well.\
This refresher was much better and more enjoyable than ones I have previously done with other companies.\
The trainer gave us the wrong information a number of times, the practical's were good but I feel like the slides could have been  rehearsed more. \
Excellent delivery and excellent content\
\
\
great course\
Please see the following feedback from the delegates on this course: Lots of information, very enjoyable, 1st class tutor, couldn't have asked for a better tutor, best 1st aid course I have ever attended, brilliant course, good humour, fantastic course, trainer was great, very good instructor. The feedback we get from our delegates about this tutor is always positive, Paul is always very polite and professional, he is a credit to your company and it would be nice if you could pass this feedback on to him.  Many thanks\
\
The course was very informative. The man than run the course was very knowledgeable, and made the learning fun, which i found makes the information stay in your brain first. Left with a book, which i've popped in my handbag to keep in at all times, that is a massive help to me. Thanks for the brilliant course.\
Course very informative and covered some subjects I had not been told before.\
This Is Emergency First Aid at WORK. the operative word her is work. The course needs to be tailored to our workplace that has booked the course in our case a primary school. I do realise general First aid is the base but this did not really address school issues. The trainer delivery was slow paced he couldn't remember from one week to the next what he had covered and what he hadn't so repetitive. Not happy at being asked to sign & date things in the book before those parts of course were delivered. Not happy at being asked to ring all the Y's in the book even before we had completed the task. Had to ask for a demo of how to apply sling. Wasn't shown or given practice on bandages. Not happy that trainer collected all feedback.\
\
The course content was good and I learned some new and updated things since my last course in 2014. Sam was engaging and personable but lacked a little in organisation. The order of the slides did not match the booklet and the content of each day was not clear at the outset, meaning we covered some topics out of sequence. \
It is with huge disappointment that I was taken ill over the weekend prior to the course & I was unable to attend\
course was very intresting,person lead that course very mutch experienced happy to anwser all questions\
The trainer was really good and he made it enjoyable to learn. \
We had two trainers for the two day refresher course, which was not ideal. However, the first trainer although very knowledgeable, had a style of presenting that was not really appropriate for a professional course like this. The second trainer was a lot better, but again slipped into dialog that was not professional as well.\
The trainer could have tried to make it a little more interesting and try to involve the group more. \
Straight to the point course, clear and concise without dragging on too long.\
\
Very informative, well presented, good balance between theory and practise on basic first aid. \
I believe the course could be shortened into 2 days rather than 3. But this may have been the case because there was only 6 people on the course. \
\
Really informative course, all colleagues left feeling confident in completing life saving treatment if required. \
The course was interesting and relevant and presented in a memorable way with group participation. Thank you\
Excellent Trainer, Colleagues completing refresher commented that he's the best trainer they've had.\
Excellent Trainer, Colleagues completing refresher commented that he's the best trainer they've had.\
The trainer arrived 30 minutes late. However, once training started, he was very friendly and engaging, he covered all areas and was willing to answer questions. The materials  and contents used for the training were very detailed and packed with information.  The delegates enjoyed the training very much.   \
Roy was a superb trainer who was confident and reassuring with his training techniques. there is a lot of information to take in within the 3 days but Roy made the course flow and I never felt rushed.\
I have only had a 1 day First aid course in the past from a different company and the difference between that course and the one I attended over the last 3 days is huge. This course was a more practical course rather than 'death by powerpoint', it was used when it needed to be used but the main difference was that the instructor (Richard Bottomley) is not only a trainer but he is a practising first response person who gave us not only good instructions but also gave real life experiences. I now feel more confident about any medical issue I may encounter.\
Excellent\
A thoroughly educational and enjoyable learning experience giving confidence in dealing with Emergency first aid situations. Thank you.\
Denis treated us like adults unlike previous organisations have. His knowledge and presentation made for an enjoyable learning experience.\
loved the use of the defribulator but the address  for the location provided to me was the wrong one \
Trainer was very good indeed\
excellently presented and very engaging.\
\
The venue left a lot to be desired, we were constantly moved from room to room, as they had not organised very well. Lack of area to eat indoors if you had bought your own lunch.\
I've completed First Aid training every 3years since the late 1980's, mostly the 3day First Aid at Work and 2day Paediatric a First Aid. Mark (I think that was hips name!) is the best trainer I've had. He explained and demonstrated techniques in an understandable, unhurried way. He took time to answer questions. He clearly explained how to do something different when one of us wasn't accurate in our practice, but he also had the ability to encourage us. His passion for his work was obvious. This guy is a credit to your company.\
First trainer very poor course timings and delivery...went sick 2nd day.............problem taken up by Dave Harrison at Green Cross H/O Sorted straight away. New trainer Mick Watson,  exceptional, knowledgeable, saved the course All happy with conclusion     Les\
\
Trainer Jess was excellent, knowledgeable and really engaging. Enjoyed the day and took a lot from it..\
\
The trainer, Carol was excellent.  The venue was fine but absolutely freezing a/c.  Unfortunately there was a lot of confusion surrounding WHICH of the two Jury's Inn hotels in Brighton the course was supposed to be at.  Subsequently we started an hour late and some of the delegates (myself included had to walk from the seafront to the station and then back to the seafront as we were given conflicting information.  Apart from this poor administration however the course was informative and very useful.  \
\
Comments from the delegates were: In depth course, good practical demonstrations, enjoyed the course learned alot, good instructor, interesting, loved everything about the course.\
brilliant instructor, Tim Hassall. made course fascinating , made learning easy \
Feedback so far from the two engineer who attended 13th September said there was more participants that expected, a bit of a mix up. Also there was no drinks available, or more so no cups to go with the coffee machine. The course was good apart from these minor issues.\
very professional, very nice trainer, very clear and concise training\
George was very approachable, he made the training very interesting, explaining everything he was doing, and making sure we were all performing the actions properly. \
Attendees felt the Trainer wasn't very organised at the beginning. The course was meant to start at 9am, but proceedings did not get underway until 10am, which resulted in material being rushed at the end.  Organisation by the venue was also very poor - no cups for coffee apparently.  Apart from that our staff felt they learnt something and were overall happy with the content of the course.\
I found the course content to be good, although the last few modules appeared to have been rushed. Partly due to the fact we lost 30 mins on day one due to the fact x3 people attended the wrong course at the wrong location, and also because the trainer's stories were at times, a little long winded.  I had already commented on the paper feedback concerning the trainer, and spoke to him directly after the course had finished. In short, I was the only person from BT attending, the others were from Tesco. Whilst I have absolutely no objection in mixing with other businesses, I did , in my opinion, get singled out for repetitive snide remarks about my company directly from the trainer himself. He may have well had problems concerning his personal telephone line and broadband, but I did not expect side comments  (he clearly thought some were amusing; I however did not) from the outset directed about my company in front of others. I did not expect comments about managers being described as like a spinal column removed ... 'spineless' . As a manager, I found this distasteful and simply not funny.  I am not exaggerating when I state comments continued for 3 days, and indeed, on the 3rd day in front of the class, I did say' that's enough and move on'. David also made a comment directed to myself and a young lady referring his conversation to a lad about gunshot wounds as  as ' men talk', to which I took umbrage, and said I thought that was a sexist remark. His reply was ' sorry.. boy's talk then'. He also made another comment as he passed my desk after returning from break, saying, ' just been speaking boy's talk'.   A further example of how (my perception) he was sexist, was the fact he was more than happy to show an injury  from his phone of a casualty who had sustained a hand injury from car keys. Happy to show the 'boys', but made it clear that we, as woman , may find it distressing. As the young lady pointed out to him, we had, actually, given birth, so blood and guts was nothing new.   As I pointed out, I too could have made loads of snide remarks that he was ex police/RAF, but chose not to, as it would lower myself, and would be unprofessional.  To conclude, the content was interesting, and I gave feedback to him once the course had completed.  The trainer needs to realise that we are actually in the 21st Century, and to be professional in delivering training. \
Great course, the trainer was very helpful.\
The trainer Kris Purser was brilliant he taught the course material in an interesting and light hearted manner whilst still ensuring the seriousness on the course was maintained.  I really enjoyed the course and the way Kris presented it.\
There were too many people for the size of the room and we ended up playing human tetras with some of the practical exercises.\
Very efficiently from beginning to end.Very easy to book and the staff concerned are always very helpful and obliging\
The test at the end of the course did not correlate with the booklet given out. The page numbers were incorrect.\
excellent across the board.\
The Rodney hotel is not a suitable venue for a first aid course. There is no parking. the room was cramped and it was difficult to complete the practical part of the course\
\
\
Mick kept the atmosphere relaxed and enjoyable, and it helped my confidence in assessing the best course of action to take when dealing with an incident.  He also explained well the reasons why we do things in the manner in which we are trained, and this helped me to grasp the importance of how we assist casualties.\
Really good course. Guy was great (perhaps too many stories of friends and personal accidents ) But very thorough and an excellent teacher.Thanks Guy \
\
Great comments from the group attending the course.  All enjoyed the course and felt that Paul, the course tutor was very knowledgeable, approachable and patient.  Further, Paul is always very professional, courteous and a pleasure to have in our training facility.  Please pass on our thanks\
Still awaiting the certificate, when will this be E Mailed. Regrads Paula Hancock\
excellent \
David was great at explaining and demonstrating he had time to listen to everyone and nothing was rushed. Loved the practical for the De fib and the choking CPR and recovery position Now feel happy to use De fib. \
Trainer really good and a wealth of experience\
Marc was excellent, the whole group were very impressed by his knowledge and the way in which the course was delivered.\
I was in the other group and the comments from the group concerned were all positive\
\
We have had feedback from the factory and everyone on the course said how poor it was, wrong materials and boring course.  We have been instructed not to use Green Cross again at this facility.  also the Trainer took away the WHL course register if this could be returned by e-mail: we would be grateful.\
Would like to say that all my colleagues were very happy with the trainer\
The trainer kept things interesting all the way through the course and it was obvious throughout that he was extremely knowledgeable\
Jeff very efficient with his wit and knowledge of first aid\
Our trainer created a positive and productive learning environment.\
\
Thoroughly enjoyable by all that attended.  Very informative and delivered easily for everyone to understand.  Thank you.\
\
\
Great course, really enjoyed it.  Jeff made all the material clear and easy to understand, and then regularly checked that the whole class fully understood.  He made the learning fun so that no one got bored.  I'm extremely grateful for the high standard of teaching and feel confident that I've reached the required standard over the 3 days.\
Course covered full range of first aid and scenarios. Very thorough\
Due to the trainer arriving late for the pm slot of the training. The training was rushed in the time we had left with an unsatisfactory finish.\
Trainer had really good knowledge but could have delivered the content in a much more compelling way with more practices, games, videos or stories to keep engagement high.   Time management on the course was poor and it felt like some areas were rushed through. We didn't stick to the designed slides or time slots for breaks or lunches and this made planning around day job more tricky to manage. \
Myself and my colleagues really enjoyed the course, one of the ladys said it was the best course she had ever done. Aidan the trainer was excellent he had alot of patience with us and his personal experience stories where great. I would highly recommend Green Cross training.\
A very interactive training session which was enjoyed by all participants and would highly recommend this training session.  Trainer was entertaining and made a very serious subject easier to grasp.\
\
\
Registration started late - around 9.15 though the course was supposed to start at 9 and we had been told to arrive at 8.45 so we could be registered before the start time. So I had to sit around in the hotel reception for 30 minutes having rushed to be on time. This was very irritating as I could have taken my time. We were told to be back sharp from lunch at 12.50 pm. The trainer did not arrive until 2 pm by which time we had all been sitting around for over an hour with nothing to do. I called the company but you were unable to locate him. When he arrived he was very flustered, slurry speech and not in the ball. He said he was fine but had been sleeping in his car and struggling to wake up. He seemed to improve a bit after about an hour. We had to skim through the second part of the course in order to get through it on time so I do not feel I got the depth of knowledge which I should have got. I felt the whole thing was very professional and disrespectful of our time. I also did not get the service advertised when I signed up because of all the wasted time. I think I should be given a partial refund as I did not get what I had paid for \
FANTASTIC, STAFF WERE VERY PLEASED \
I took the coarse 4 weeks ago but I still haven't received my certificate. \
great course. well ran and carried out in a friendly fun and timely manner. \
Trainer brought real life experiences into the training in an engaging and relevant way, making the day interesting and enjoyable\
\
Great course and a great trainer. Tim was very experienced and taught in a way that made it easy to understand and remember.\
\
The course was very well run with easy to understand information/instructions from the tutor who put the group at ease, a very knowledgeable and patient tutor.   Paul is a great tutor, we always get great feedback from the delegates.  He's always very professional and polite and it's a pleasure to have him attend our Academy.\
Great course, feedback from both candidates was very positive and very informative\
The trainer, Mark Hankin, was very experienced and very knowledgable. He was motivated and kept the group engaged throughout.\
\
\
easy to understand at a steady pace as I'm a have learning disabillity\
great course John Dodds knows his stuff .put it all across very well\
A very informative course delivered at a good pace. The trainer had excellent subject knowledge and a very amenable style of delivery. Thoroughly recommended\
Tim was a great trainer and made everyone feel welcome from the start. Regular feedback was given, to make sure you had a clear understanding.  The overall course was really good, everyone got involved and helped each other out. I feel very confident that I will be able to conduct first aid going forward. \
Ash was very professional, knowledgeable and I would be happy to recommend him. \
Feedback from all the delegates was that the trainer engaged everyone, the content of the coarse was relevant, easy to follow. All of them took away first aid skills, confindent in putting into practise.  The refresher candidates, all made the comment that the trainer was the best trainer that they had had, and would recommend him for future coarses\
\
Our trainer was lovely. She made us all welcome, got everyone involved and made training us fun! Highly recommend this trainer to anyone! \
Trainer did not bring enough materials for the number of people - should be bringing spares.\
\
\
\
Dear green cross.  One bad thing. You haven't sent my first aid certificate.?  John hewitt 07786868189\
\
Maybe a recap at the end of everything we had learnt would be good, and a test\
great trainer \
Small room for 10 people and hard floor for practical work\
The trainers were told the wrong time for the training to start.  Confusion with location etc Trainer was told it was for 4 hours training which is incorrect.\
\
Only fault was the dirty cups left for us to use. This happened several times over the three days.\
Comments received from Kieron who attended the course was full of praise for the Instructor\
Excellent Trainer \
Really enjoyed the course. The trainer was interesting, knowledgeable and good sense of humour and instantly felt at ease for the day.\
Carol was thorough, efficient and ran the course extremely well. Both me and my colleague who attended the course felt we learned a great deal from Carols great teaching skills.\
The trainer was very professional and covered all training contents for the trainees to understand.\
The best first aid course that I have ever attended.\
\
Trainer kept it interesting\
Very thorough considering it's only a days course. Very insightful and interesting \
10/10 fantastic feedback from the group regarding the course and the tariner.\
\
Great course, great content, great trainer - made the day very interesting and easy to listen and take on board all the important info.\
\
\
great course, trainer was well prepared and had a vast subject knowledge \
I would have felt more comfortable learning the emergency first aid, DR SAB, CPR etc over two days rather than one day, then have one extra day to look at the burns, electrocution etc. Not necessarily for myself, as I feel that I pick things up quite quickly, but for those who take longer to remember the information, for those working in their second language or for those who are brand new to first aid.\
Although i did not attend the course myself i have recieved lots of great feedback about the course and most espically the Trainer. Thank you Greencross and we look forward to our next booking next week for 3 day course. \
Excellent 3 Day Course well delivered by Leila.  All queries and questions answered without issue and at the right level for the delegates.  Good to see Defib practical and Choking practical sessions - with course equipment provided.  Would perhaps be useful to issue the course notes on Day 1 for any pre-reading and to pick up on any changes since last course undertaken.  Really enjoyed the course and learnt a lot.  Thank you.\
Show more videos - real life and case study showing what to do and not to do in 'real life ' situations with difficult environment.  The first aid book seems easy to understand, should it be a bit more detailed?  I am happy to provide comments but I had to do it twice already on paper (on the exam booklet and greencross sheet)\
\
just the location of the training could have been better. no parking and very small room for 11 people.\
Course was enjoyable and I learnt a lot\
good content\
\
\
Ken was an excellent trainer and the students really appreciated his efforts. He made all the instructions clear and concise.\
Richard was friendly, engaging, got great feedback from the students. Really was a great course tutor\
\
\
Nice touch with the hand out booklet, which will be a reminder over the next 3 years.\
\
I think there should be a internal CBT safety refresher because you do forget some of your training.  If you've not had to use your training skills at all you will be rusty. A 20-30 min quick CBT refresher would be ideal, it just keeps you on your toes.\
A very good and instructive course. Jeff the trainer was very helpful and presented the course material well.\
It was a well presented and easy to understand course. The knowledge and experience that Natalie had was a get asset.\
The trainer was excellent; knowledgeable and engaging and overall a very good presenter.  The course content was somewhat lacking compared to the last course I had, though - and this appeared to be by design in order to cover the minimum points necessary for an employer to say they've sent people on first aid training. Where before I left the venue feeling knowledgeable and empowered to handle a first aid scenario, this one felt like I could tick a box.\
\
the trainer from arrival, observing our work place needs , demonstrated a professional throughout.  I will recommend this course, based on a good experience from my staffs training day \
\
Feedback from my team is that the course was very well run and the teacher methods were good.\
The course leader was very thourough. He provdided lots of relevant info and described everything in full.\
\
All canidates enjoyed the course & found it informative. The course leadrer was excellent\
Only issue is that the collegues do not get a certificate anymore. Can this been implimented again?\
The completion of the course workbook seemed to be managed so as to achieve a 100% pass rate across the group, which might not have been totally appropriate...\
Really enjoyed the course, the trainer John came up with really good scenarios and mixed it up to keep the class engaged. \
employees enjoyed course \
Feedback from our colleagues who attended this course was very positive about their trainer Ash. Everyone agreed that he created a relaxed atmosphere, they apreciated his 'down to earth' approach and humour. They thought he was very knowledgeable left them feeling confident about using the skills they had learnt. Great job Ash!\
Very Beneficial \
effective and efficient, content well delivered \
very informative and well presented. The trainer answered all questions asked and was thorough and professional.\
Enjoyable, well presented and knowledgeable  course.\
\
\
The course was really good. The trainer also reiterated the previous course information to link further information with the second course of Health & Safety. We had a full class of learners, (within the 2nd course of 12) which provided many questions and demonstrations. The booklet for the second training was more simply than the previous booklet and easy to retain the information, The first H&S book  had more legislation and regulations within it. Hence it took longer to retain . However we have to read this regularly. The information for Fire Marshalls were clear and had a plan, which the group were able to see what we need to demonstrate within our public venue.  The members were happy with the course and have spoke about a refresher course next year. Also we had good trainers, which we were very pleased that their delivery, support and pace was excellent to obtain the information. THANK YOU VERY MUCH Green cross Trainers. (Also all the staff in the organisation that help to organised the arrangements for our training.)\
\
Very good content, seems to cover every thing needed and more. The trainer was very knowledgeable and professional.\
Very engaging trainer, with obvious expertise and passion.\
Excellent delivery. Colleagues really enjoyed it\
interesting trainer, short and precise to the point, felt relaxed\
Our colleagues felt the course was great but felt it was rushed and felt a 5 day course would have been suitable for all the content to cover.\
As usual an excellent couse\
\
Health & Safety course was more challenging for our group as it requires laws, enforcement notice, policies and procedures.  The booklet for this course a few of the members found it was to much knowledge and information to retain. The book requires regular reading to sustain the information for practice. However, this require revision for our group.\
\
Very well lead course by Andy and a lot of information provided in the time that we had.\
fab course excellently delivered\
The trainer had lots of experience that he shared which helped understand practical applications for the knowledge. \
There is alot of paperwork to fill out before the course starts, and we already have limited time with the surgeries for the training. Would it be easier for me to give you the names, DOB etc for you to pre fill out the forms? Or I am happy to arrive earlier to do this myself, and then pass the the person for them to check and sign. I could also pre fill out the first part of the feedback form with the surgeries details, that would save eating into their training time. Also I had a few people ask me why you want their DOB.\
\
Really enjoyed the emergency first aid at work course held at The Bond Company by Green Cross Training. The trainer Jess went through things really smoothly and explained everything really well.  Would recommend 100%\
best first aid course I have attended Sarah was professional, approachable and explained everything as she went along \
EPIPENS could be included in this course content. I've never seen or used one and a little insight would benefit my confidence, should I need to use one in the future.\
10/ 10 great accurate up to date content. Handouts spot on. Learning steared to suit individuals to reach there potential. Good location\
I have been on alot of first aid courses the trainer Gary Stewart is by far the most interactive and easy to follow i have ever incountered.  On the last day we had another trainer Alister I found him to be slightly unfocused on teachings and alot harder to follow, I do understand this may be partly to do with the fact he had taken over someone elses class half way through.  The facility was not in walking distance of any shops - I think it would have been nice to have that information maybe with advice to bring lunch in before the course commenced.  Overall very informative course though and good amount of practical. \
hi this is linda filling this in myself and aaron went on the course monday 12 june bull  pen sherington we found the course very interesting .Thank you.[2932]\
Excellent course, great value for money and i've had glowing feedback re: Jess the trainer. Very happy with the materials given out and the depth of the training. \
Trainer was great but the course overran on time and i wasn't allowed to leave which was highly distressing\
For a one day course I thought the content covered was adequate & not too much crammed into the one day, coupled with the fact  we had a great trainer who was clear & concise  with his training style & made everyone feel at ease. \
\
Informative and enjoyable course. Very well delivered.\
Half of the group attended and greatly enjoy the course. Margaret Goldsmith was a excellent trainer. The group engage in the course to obtain the materials and demonstrations. Some of the group  were out of date from training many years ago. The course was relevant and showing the progression in emergency Aid.  The trainer left 'homework' to practising emergency aid and CPR. Also it brought to mind for our church to secure restrictive access for this practical kit in a suitable place where those who are training to use the kit appropriately. Also, not open to everyone where we find the item are finish. Only authorise persons and train to use the equipment.\
Great trainer, kept everyone's attention throughout the day and very knowledgeable.\
\
The Trainer is very good, quiet engaging and has in-depth knowledge of his subject matter. As for the course  I believe lot is being crammed up in short period.   The firs aider are expected to remember what they have done in two days for a period of three years is bit of overreach.   I believe the course should be at least three day duration and repeated every year. \
Last brochure was more informative and detailed then the new A5 size.\
Gary Stewart tutored my last course 3 years ago so having the continuity was good.  He has a natural talent for encouraging everyone to take part and work together with good humour and doesn't belittle anyone if they get something wrong.  It's my first visit to The Bull Pen which I think could do with some signage on the road (an A-board or deliberately parking one of the sign-written vans would do).  I also found the training room rather small.  I can't imagine there would have been much elbow room had all 12 delegates turned up.  At every break, the 7 delegates made a break for fresh air and space.  I don't know if the 3 day course has a practical exam any more but I felt much more relaxed at being assessed during the 2 days.  At a previous course the chief of the Fire Service turned up in full regalia which was very intimidating.\
\
the staff spoke very highly of the trainer\
\
Had some fantastic feedback regarding the trainer, really in depth training given and boosted the confidence of some of my first aiders who dont get to respond as often as others.\
Great tutor, very knowledgeable, always on time and courteous.  The groups always enjoy Pauls sessions, pleasure to have Paul attend Ashton store.  Please pass on our thanks\
\
\
\
Once again, brill course. We had a genuine incident with a badly cut finger and someone else in shock, the tutor treated both accordingly. Even booking the course and short notice was made so easy.\
 Good course well presented wrong venue, no parking no local  lunch availability.  \
alll delegtaes had only positive comments\
Fab course, made very easy to understand\
\
Ron Miles did an extremely good job at teaching the course, with a lot of information on a sensitive topic he made it interesting and light hearted at times which eased the learning process.  \
Feedback from delegates was positive, felt that the content was adequate level with enough rest breaks to digest the material.  They felt Sean refreshed their knowledge in a  style that suited their different learning abilities.\
Having had experience of both HSE first aid at work courses and EFR (Emergency first response) courses for over 25 years now - I am an instructor in this and a former NHS community responder.  I have sat through many courses and learned from some very fun and innovative trainers. I have learned the ins and outs of what to do and what not to do and seen the courses evolve over many years always promoting the 'better to do something than to do nothing' approach as it has been proved that most people shy away from giving first aid at a scene due to the fear of doing something wrong. I have always found your trainers very experienced and knowledgeable and they have always delivered excellent courses. I felt on this occasion however the course was not so much fun or informal. The trainer was very focussed on getting his books and paperwork filled in. I understand that this is a requirement but it appeared to be the primary objective (maybe just a new requirement?) I found myself and several of the other candidates on the day drifting as the trainer was unable to engage the group and keep their attention. Although the course content was adequately covered it seemed a little long winded at times and I feel there was a lot of time wasted on minor details, for example - Bandaging. A huge part of the afternoon was spent perfecting the art of herringbone patterned bandaging with even sides and nice neat symmetry on completion. In an emergency situation ANY sterile bandage covering the wound and preventing infection and excess bleeding would suffice. I've seen serious bleeds where a paramedic has placed a pad against a bleed and told the patient to apply pressure.. no herringbone pattern required and no faffing about. This should surely be the emphasis? Although nice neat bandaging may be an art and great to know I'm sure that covering the wound, securing the bandage and preventing infection is the primary aim. I feel that over-complicating things like this could be counter productive and cause confusion. Especially if a candidate does not use their skills for several months then is suddenly required to do some bandaging. if all they remember is that they needed to do some intricate bandaging this could prevent them from stepping into action and stemming the bleed effectively. Anyway without being too derogatory against the trainer I feel he was struggling to engage with the group and waffled on a bit at times and I didn't find the course as much fun, or engaging and stimulating as I do usually and the content seemed a little focussed on outdated minor detail rather than common sense, ease and practicality. \
Really good course  Perfect mix of enjoyable learning. Ron is very knowledgeable and fantastic at what he does. would highly recommend this course.\
The course covered too much on the first day to allow for the 1day students. Which lead to the rest of the course being very slow on the second and third day. It would be better to have separate courses for 1 day and 3 day. Venue was poor.\
Great course - Jeff delivered the content at a perfect pace and welcomed every single question. A pleasure.\
\
\
The admin surrounding the original booking, and booking confirmation was poor. Joining instructions were not clearly issued. Not very impressed. Course attendees found the course informative though, so would use again.\
Eileen is a star. Our groups are always a bit mixed in personality but she manages to always give them a fantastic and interesting session. Great personality, super professional and engaging!\
The course was realy good the trainer was very good we had a bit of fun but he made sure we all new all about first aid great day thanks to Sean\
I liked Mak he explained everything clearly and drilled it into us.\
The staff here at diss felt she was the best ever, they learned more than on the last course they attended and felt the trainer was great.\
\
\
Informative and also some new knowledge gained as my last course was 3 years ago. Sean made it interesting\
David was a great trainer, he kept us engaged in the course & his years of knowledge helped us to understand how the skills can be used in practice.  The equipment he brought with him was good too, we got to experience techniques we hadn't before, such as the abdominal thrust vest.  \
Trainer was fantastic he made everyone relaxed which made the course more enjoyable and I came away with lots of skills\
very informative and great trainer\
the course was very interactive and was at the correct level for the delegates. Dave did a great job with the trainees and helped with all questions and concerns\
\
Johnathan was very hands on and patient throughout. The way in which the material was explained was efficent and could be picked up quite quickly. He was happy to answer any question, no question was too silly. Overall it was very helpful and enjoyable.\
Course was very well ran and delivered by Jess.  She delivered the course to meet evryones training needs and was very patient and clear when explaining situations/ first aid techniches.  The course content itself was very good and covered all areas that we would need inside the workplace and more.\
A fantastic trainer who delivered the course contents with passion and energy. Put everyone at ease. David Lawson was a complete Star!!!!  \
Trainer was brilliant went quick wish we had longer lot of info in 3 days briiliant info common diseases diabetes/heart attack etc really enjoyed it . 6 candidates which was ideal think 10 planned would have been too many\
The Trainers sense of humor was a little off key on some occasions i.e. assumption that ALL children steal from shops, and could come across a little sexist on occasions. \
Course speed was little slow but contents covered everything and very good teaching technic and friendly environment.\
\
\
Very informative and hands on, with a little humour to break up the possible classroom monotony.   \
Mark was a very good teacher.  Made the course interesting with a touch of humour.\
Great feedback from the colleagues. Interesting course. facilitator excellent.\
Clear message.  Patient demeanor.\
Very pleased with the training provided and the trainer that visited to Hulton.  Very informative, didn't mind explaining to new staff and was training for all levels of competency.  Will use your service again. \
really good course and enthusiastic trainer.\
\
\
\
Great fun,  Faisal pitched the learning at a pace to suite the group along with setting scenarios around are work place and client group we work with.\
Ken was a great trainer and kept us all engaged. His training was extremely good. Due to his level of knowledge and the equipment he has, this course was the best first aid course I have attended, and was much better than a St John's course.  I enjoyed attending and Ken made it so easy to learn.\
\
Leslie was absolutely fantastic.  I have done training with yourselves over the last 12 years.  Leslie's training was the most well delivered, engaging and entertaining training I have ever been on.  Never a dull moment.  He is a credit to your organisation.  I feel like just requesting my next first aid refresher with Leslie.  \
STAFF WERE CONFIDENT THEY COULD DEAL WITH FIRST AID SITUATIONS . THE TRAINER  MADE THE COURSE INTERESTING EVERYONE WAS INVOLED.\
Interesting course - covered very relevant information. \
The Team really enjoyed the day and said it was very informative and relaxed\
Gary made the course both interesting and understandable and without making it so intensive that people were under so much pressure. Unlike my previous course. My level of understanding is much better then on previous because of the relaxed approach. Speaking to others on the course they all found it was the same for them. I hope that this approach is maintained on my next course. Gary's approach was excellent and if it isn't practised in the same manor with other trainers then I would recommend that they adapt to this method.\
Trainer was very friendly, and really knew her stuff\
Trainer Gary Stewart was excellent, he was very good at explaining course material and making it easy to understand.\
Best trainer ever - and I have been on a lot of 1st aid courses through work and scouting. Gary explained sign/symptoms & treatment like most other trainers. But then went on to explain the reasons why and what would happen if you didn't quite get it right. He managed to get across the most important things in a fun way. Thoroughly enjoyable course and a great trainer - well done.\
We all enjoyed the course, the trainer was very down to earth and kept it interesting. \
The colleagues said the course was brilliant and that everyone that was nervous and frightend of failing was made to feel and coached to pass. thank you \
The colleagues said the course was brilliant and that everyone that was nervous and frightend of failing was made to feel and coached to pass. thank you \
\
I gave the higher score to the course and the trainer who was very flexible regarding course hours. However, I would like also give the highest score to the Key Account Executive- Jacqueline Mahoney. She was very helpful, she gave me many advises how to manage the course. \
I felt that the trainer had a great knowledge of the subject, and I seldom had to ask questions as she had already provided me with the answers.\
Enjoyable course that kept our interest with knowledge and humour.\
Really enjoyed this course, the trainer was really knowledgeable and able to answer any questions I had\
As a trained St John Ambulance Technician I found the training boring and long-winded.  Nice to have lots of breaks and early finishes, though.\
\
Great training & trainer, some of the book content was out of date, and in need of refreshing\
The feedback from my first aiders on the course has been very positive and they all seem re-energised which is great to see. \
Eileen was very knowledgeable and shared her experiences of her life that were relevant, this added extra interested and helped the lessons flow.\
The course was well led and all the colleagues enjoyed the learning.\
David, was a great mentor for our first aid training colleagues. He was attentive and positive and all the colleagues feel fully trained and confident within their role to now protect our colleagues and customers. Thank you \
NOT A LOT OF OPEN SPACE FOR THE PRACTICAL EXERCISES I.E. CPR ON THE FLOOR OR THE ROLE PLAY CHALLENGES AT THE END OF THE COURSE\
Very good course and excellent trainer\
Staff had good feedback and were confident they could handle a fire situation should it occur\
All participants have commented on how good the course was by being very informative and interactive. They cannot fault the trainer who made everything interesting with a little fun. On scale of 1-10 the course is rated 10\
The course was a refresher for myself and it was good to catch up with the changes that have taken place and very helpful to experience the defibrulator\
Well paced. Trainer experienced & knowledgeable.\
George with this knowledge of real life events with the fire brigade he was able to make it very interesting and kept us all attentive over the 2 days. He created a very relaxed atmosphere we felt at ease and made the course very enjoyable. \
I really enjoyed the course, Nick's presentation was excellent, mixing in humour with the facts, to make learning easier.\
\
Trainer was fanstastic , fun and kept us all engaged. Helpful and polite. \
\
\
Could have been in a more central location, near a train station would have helped. Some people were late because of where it was as traffic was very heavy. Great course though.\
Great Course - thank you\
\
excellent course\
\
Knew most of it already\
\
Faisal was an excellent trainer who delivered a well-paced, engaging and informative course.  He was humorous, had an excellent knowledge-base, and utilised anecdotes that helped illustrate the learning.  I would not hesitate to recommend him and Green Cross.\
all our people enjoyed the training\
The course didn't really require three full working days. It could be filled out by adding more practical role playing scenarios to test us. Some attendees were less involved in things (by their own choice) I feel everyone should be made to participate to ensure they all get the same from the experience. My experience was wonderful.  \
VERY INTRESTING COURSE FOUND IT VERY GOOD EXCEPT ONE THING WE ONLY DID THEORY THERE WAS NOT MUCH IN PRACTICAL ON HANDLING PRODUCTS ON LIFTING, BUT THOUGHT IT WENT VERY WELL \
From not knowing what manual handling consisted of and how it affects your body in different situations, I feel like I have learned very important information. It was very intriguing to say the least, I wish I knew sooner. The trainer, Wayne, was very informative and helpful with answering questions and explaining things down to a 'T'.  Thoroughly enjoyed the learner methods.  Thank you! - Jaimee-Leigh Webb\
Covered everything in the syllabus in detail with plenty of check pointing to confirm delegates understood.\
\
Course really good and the trainer was excellent, he explained everything in easy to understand terms. Venue was good easy to get to.\
I have attended several 1st Aid course this was by far the best due to the Kens knowledge and mainly his style of delivering training.  Really felt that I gained more confidence and learnt a lot. \
Some pictures used on the sildes were inaccuarate and it would be good if we seen the DVD for the AED we have instore.\
Have received really goos feedback about the course.\
Always very professional and make it enjoyable and interactive. All colleagues taking part rave about your courses very much\
Surface to lean on for note-taking would have been preferable, and was no content on dealing with mental health emergencies, ie panic attacks; but otherwise was very useful. \
I thoroughly enjoyed the course, the way it was presented and the knowledge that was given.  Very highly recommended  \
All our colleagues said this course explained every they need know in detail and the reason why they really enjoyed it.\
\
The room that we were in could have been nicer.\
\
I FELT THAT THE CLASS WAS TOO LARGE, iE 20 PLUS STUDENTS ON 2 COURSES IN A ROOM BARELY BIG ENOUGH TO ACCOMODATE THEM. AS A 1 DAY REFRESHER I FELT I DIDNT GAIN ANYTHING FROM IT\
\
Enjoyed the course, Interesting and informative.  Well paced.  trainer had good a nice pace to the content and kept the content interesting. Only issue was the room was a little stuffy and could have been better.\
Chris was a great trainer who has lots of experience to share and lots of knowlegde\
Brilliant Trainer with much expericence to bring the course to life and put into real life context. Great knowledge!\
Everyone who attended the course found the trainer excellent and it was the best First Aide Course they had attended.\
Great course at a good pace. My trainer Julia Smith was excellent.\
Trainer Ron Miles had a nice way about him making learning very easy Would recommend the Power Point material be updated as it looked a little dated  \
\
Course Cancelled! No notice until late Friday evening which caused issues and impacted on business. \
Everyone really enjoyed the course. Some of our colleagues were lacking confidence and seem to have an increase since doing the course. The tutor was well knowledge and made the course over the 3 days fun and interactive as much as possible. There was a really buzz from all who had attended.\
Great trainer, poor room.  Tea and coffee would have been nice ! \
The colleagues who attended said the trainer was brilliant and kept the enthusiam and engagement high. I have had nothing but positive feedback\
Good content , well presented. Good mix of presentation  and practical  with a test at the end.\
Mark Hankin was excellent\
\
I have been on a number of these courses previously and found them to be stressful but on this coures I found it to be the most informative and helpfull one I have ever been on, the trainer Mick Watson is a credit to the company and I will now recomend Green Cross to all of my contacts.\
\
The Course it self was great, Very Interesting and really enjoyable. However what made the course was Jess. Even though Ive done many resits with other companies, Jess really made the course much more enjoyable and I learnt things I never knew before.  Time really passed quickly on the 2 days and with it also being a smaller group than I'm used to, it was much better.   If I had one thing to moan about was the lack of paper for Notes.  I would have expected Green Cross to provide paper or a little pad for notes etc.  But that really was the only gripe I had. Thanks\
\
Would be good to have a table to write on and if lunch was included but course content was fine and presenter was engaging and knowledgeable.\
\
Eileen was very clear in the 1st aid she was training,  also if we didn't understand something that she had said we could always go back to her for more information if needed.\
Course was great! I feel confident in CPR and the recovery position. A final quiz may have been useful just to go over the bits we learnt on the last day. But that said I think most people just wanted to get off early so wasn't too much of a problem.\
Those that were on this course found it informative , really enjoyed the course and gained knowledge of the subject. Ken the instructor was excellent and put the content of First Aid over to them in a professional way\
Fantastic tutor - managed to engage the whole group. They all enjoyed it. Thank you\
\
\
Trainer was brilliant. Very engaging. Very knowledgable.\
Excellent course given by an excellent trainer. Rod was able to provide clear concise answers to any questions asked. I learnt a lot from the course and feel confident in my first aider role in the workplace with the training I've received.\
Rod was easy to understand and held our attention well. Very personable and approachable.\
Very informative, Rod was really helpful and thorough, made sure everyone understood every point especially those like myself whom had never undertaken any form of first aid training previously.\
I didn't actually do the course I arranged it, I received very positive feedback from the attendees they thoroughly enjoyed it\
the course was very well lead by the trainer and everyone tht attended found the information very good.\
Very good course!\
Very helpful and informative course. Good range of slideshows to practical\
I have had nothing but positive feedback about the course. Several of the attendees have been on previous courses and have said this was the best one yet... Great experience shares from the trainer... Thanks\'85\
Very good course\
Overall a very good course, the feedback I have had from the team has been positive and not typical of what you would get from a typical health and safety course, a lot of good feedback regarding info on how the spine works\
Fantastic trainer, very knowledgeable , captured and maintained interest throughout the 2 sessions. \
Engaging day with good information and relating to real life events\
John's delivery of the workshop was very good.  he engaged the young people using different methods power point, practical activities and questions and answers this kept the young people engaged. they felt comfortable in asking questions and sharing times when they had helped in an emergency   \
\
\
Our delegate reports Julia was excellent and thorough, but there were problems with the venue at a motor kart track in middle of school half term. Be great to have somewhere quieter for future courses.\
\
\
Good course, plenty of practical with a good instructor. Shame about the venue, to say it was cold is an understatement! Lack of desks for writing, no proper projector screen and at times noisy. This venue is used for Go carting & is not really suitable as a training environment. I\'82\'c4\'f4m sure it was cheap hire but that\'82\'c4\'f4s reflected in the quality. \
\
Superbly delivered course, explained in a way that made it easy to follow the material. Made enjoyable, interactive and fun, very enjoyable as well as useful to know and interesting, really good course.\
Excellent course and fantastic trainer \
\
I'm really not happy, this is the 4th first aid course I've done, but never have I done one where the instructor purposefully makes people feel uncomfortable, is totally unhelpful, and switches everyone off. This is a one day first aid course, we're not training to become paramedics or nurses, the level he is assessing at is utterly ridiculous. All he has managed to do is frighten most of the people in the room in to not wanted to give first aid. I'm honestly disgusted and quite angry. His name is David lawson On top of that, he's spent most of his time talking about his exploits in Australia and New Zealand, his teaching methods are dated and was of no support to anyone. Making people cry is not teaching or guiding or coaching.\
All course details and equipment was clear and easy to understand and was presented in a professional friendly manner.\
\
\
\
\
\
Comments from some members of staff who attended:  - I thought it was great \'82\'c4\'ec tough to try and keep everyone listening for 3 hours and I think I will remember most of it!  - Very useful and well delivered. Money and time well spent.  - A lot to take in, but a good refresher of all the key areas.  Really useful to see the heart-start being demonstrated.  - I thought it was generally good \'82\'c4\'ec a lot to cover in three hours, but as he says, retaining something is better than nothing. I found because of the seriousness of what was covered, it wasn\'82\'c4\'f4t too hard to concentrate for an extended period. Perhaps a ten minute break may have helped however.  - I found it quite useful to be honest.  They did well despite a tough crowd!  Certainly useful information to have. \'d4\'c5\'e4  - I thought yesterday was very good.  First Aid can be very tedious but they did really well in engaging us throughout. Brilliant.  - Good and insightful in a 3 hour block, has made me feel more confident about delivering first aid in a school setting.  Very informative  - I enjoyed the inset and found the refresher style easy to remember. I thought the 2 gentlemen did a great job in such a short time. I would like to have more training and get certificated if possible.\
I have heard good feedback from the colleagues which attended the course. However, I struggled to edit the details of colleagues I had entered when we had drop outs before. I also haven't heard if everyone has passed from yourselves, only through word of mouth from the colleagues. \
LOCATION WAS TERRIBLE.SMALL ROOM,NO VENTILATION AN 10 PEOPLE CRUSHED IN.LITTLE OR NO ROOM TO DO CPR ETC.\
Was a bit apprehensive regarding the initial course.  But Mike Watson (trainer) was so knowledgeable and friendly which made him very approachable for the many questions I had to ask. I have now finished the course feeling more confident within myself to handle a situation should it arise.   \
\
Enjoyed the whole day- well briefed by the course instructor- made the day enjoyable and easy learning.\
\
Although I didn't take the course myself all the comments I have had from participants have been very positive\
\
every time i go i learn something new.  I was really pleased that we received training on defibrilators and epi pens.  Gary was great, understood the audience and changed his style to the people in the room\
\
\
After doing this course over many years, Andy made this course very enjoyable, by far the best trainer I have had. \
Feedback from our employees that attended the course was hugely positive and they all seemed to love Carol!  If we book some more courses with you, could we please have her again if she is available? \
Good engaging sessions\
The two colleagues who went on the coarse were new to First Aid,they enjoyed the interaction,comfortable enviroment and both came away very upbeat about the 3 days and what they could bring back to our Tesco Store.\
\
Excellent, worthwhile course which I really enjoyed. The tutor, Nick Collins, is very knowledgeable and , professional. He answered the numerous questions and took the time to explain where delegates had some difficulty understanding. This was particularly shown with Andy, whose first language is not English. \
\
I came away from the 3 day course feeling very confident that in the event for a 1st aid situation I would be able to carry out procedure correctly, Richard applied very easy to follow teaching techniques. I left each day without feeling unsure,  Brilliant teacher and will recommend him to staff within my company who are wanting to carry out a 1st aid course \
enjoyable and worthwhile course\
\
\
The location was very good also the relaxed atmosphere but what made the course excellent was Gary Stewart, every part of the course was interesting and informative he was patient and very knowledgeable giving us examples of situations and allowed us to answer his questions.  The 2 days flew by I have been on many first aid courses but this  time I came away with a full understanding  of first aid and not a confused mind filled with bandages and which one to use and where....  Well done!\
1) third feedback form is too many 2) the place was freezing - totally unacceptable\
very good course and very good trainer\
A standard first aid course delivered well by the trainer who kept it very interactive helping to keep it interesting and aid the learning process \
The session was very disjointed. Breaks nearly totalled 3 hours! Why couldnt we do a half day. Some of the comments made by the trainer we inappropriate e.g. borderline sexist, homophobic and ageist. Examples include making a joke about blow jobs and his ex wife, rhyming angina with vagina, saying people dont want men to take other mens pulses and how ambulances wont drive as fast to patients who are old. I was disapointed. One man left about 2 hours early and was still passed?! how can he be validated? \
\
The Staff were really complimentary about Lee.  They all agreed he delivered the course in a very informative, interesting and professional manner.  We would recommend him and the staff said they would want him again when we do anymore e 1st Aid training.  \
Julia was a great trainer making the sessions fun but getting the serious message over at the same time. We all really enjoyed it. Thank you!\
\
\
\
very friendly trainer, excellent feedback from the delegates. I also found him to be very approachable , friendly and helpful. please pass on my thanks to him , sheila\
Thefeedback from the colleagues that attended found it very interesting and were more and more confident  as the course progressed.They all said it was very informative and enjoyed it.\
With the introduction of the AED training, the course seemed very full on for one day, but as it was a refresher course for the majority of participants it worked well, and the trainer really knew his subject and never seemed under time pressure. I did not feel that any aspect of the course was not covered adequately\
Great 3 day session the only comment I would make is you need to inform the shops what size training room you need to make it easier to operate. If we had 11 candidates we wouldnt of been able to proceed due to lack of space\
All colleagues returned to store very positive about the course and gave excellent feedback about the trainer himself.\
Recommend the course very highly. Lots of great material throughout the 3 days. Trainer was extremly knowledgable and took the course confidently and well. Would recomment to anyone to attend.\
the training was cancelled but we wasnt made aware\
\
\
We have another first aid training session booked over 2 evenings, 30 Jan and 6 Feb, booking ref:7012320.   Please can I request a different trainer as I don't feel the one we had this week  will suit our teachers as his style was a bit disjointed.  Also would it be possible to include a bit more time on cuts, bumps and sprains, breaks as these are the main incidents in a primary school.  I realise we have to cover the other areas, but wondered if it could be 'tailored' a bit more for a school?\
Enough information without being overkill. made course fun.\
Cheryl Watson was fantastic, made the course relaxing ,clear,and effortless..well done\
Not much 'takeaway' material and the workbooks get submitted so unless I'd taken notes I'd have nothing to refer back to after the course.  As accreditation lasts 3 years that's a long time to have to remember.  You'll probably say material goes out of date but having something to refer to would be helpful, even if website link (which you can keep upto date).  Trainer Eileen was very good.   \
All of our candidates were very happy with the training they received. \
Everything was fine but due to unforeseen circumstances the trainer did not arrive until 9.50am which meant we had students waiting for nearly an hour. This was no ones fault but still inconvenient. This will not stop me using Green Cross in the future.\
\
Even though there was a slight hiccup with the first instructor, Tim Hassall was fantastic, got us back on track and made the 3 day course, enjoyable and interesting.\
I enjoyed Ron's enthusiasm and overall professionalism regarding first aid. He was very thorough in ensuring we used the right techniques learnt on the day. Would enjoy a course run by him again. \
\
Trainer was Tim Hassall\
I have already completed this survey on your paper form so why also electronically \
Trainer Mick found the right balance between fun and informative. Very good day.\
Everything was well explained and Jeff give positive feedback to us all and corrected us when we did something that was not quite right.\
Course was on 5/10/16. Three months later I am still waiting for the refund that I am owed due to your error. The certificate did not arrive as advised by the trainer and had to be chased and then it was only an email not a proper certificate and 'wallet sized card' as stated by the trainer.\
\
I have not as yet received my certificate since sitting the course\
\
We did not receive certificates, or an update to show who had passed.\
the wrong course address was sent ot our store which meant my candidates were in the wrong place and therefore too lateot attend the first aid course in a different location..appalling\
CPR mannequins could do with being replaced - 1 was faulty and it was difficult to tell if the chest was inflating or if the airway wasn't opened correctly.\
Very good course. Was well worth closing our bar for. Julia Smith was very informative and very helpful. A very happy and fun instructor. \
Gary was a fantastic trainer!\
Bob McHardy: Trainee from our store: Enjoyed the course immensely, by Mick Watson and Sam Logan. The new theory/ written book side was useful, as was the practical and chance to practice. Both trainers have they're unique style, making all three days engaging and easy to understand at all levels.\
The course was delivered in a fun and expert way that made it easy to take in the learning\
relaxed, enjoyable, plenty of hands on teaching\
\
The course was excellent.   The trainer was really very good , very engaging and encouraging\
The course was excellent very informative, not afraid to ask any questions.  I felt comfortable being the only female in the group, I was put at ease knowing who id be working with for the next three days. Great course and venue.\
excellent course & the trainer was excellent.\
\
\
\
\
Excellent course enjoyed by all.  Thankyou\
\
\
ALL THE CANDIDATES THAT I HAVE SPOKEN TO AGREE THAT THE COURSE WAS VERY WELL RUN,INFORMATIVE WITH A BIT OF FUN THROWN IN.\
I thoroughly enjoyed the course. And feel I learnt a great deal for a 1 day course. \
very useful course and Julia was a good instructor who was very engaging in the presentation.\
Very informative and very well presented\
Julia was really enthusiastic, funny and a professional tutor.  the course was extremely useful and was probably one of not the best training course I have ever had in 37 years!  well done Julia you were fantastic.  everyone agreed afterwards that they'd really enjoyed the course and learnt something useful.\
Booklet supplied had basic error on hazardous signage.\
THe venue (room) was too small. Trainer and content however very good.\
Really enjoyed the course, very informative, the trainer was very approachable and demonstrated the practicals really well.   The only complaint would be that the training room was a little small.\
The trainer made the 3 days interactive with lots of practical and had a wealth of knowledge.  Very enjoyable course.\
\
The trainer was down to earth, made everyone feel at ease and his presentations was easy to understand and gave us the confidence to be a first aider\
Unlike other first aid courses, this one didn't just go through 'general what ifs', it presented real-life scenarios and situations, providing the opportunity for school staff to question appropriate methods within the given setting. \
Lots of information delivered in a fun and enjoyable course\
Julia was a very good and clear instructor.. she was passionate about her work. She accessed the group well and played to what was in front of her which made it alot of fun.\
\
Very good course, I feel I have gained valuable First Aid Skills. Roy was a brilliant trainer.\
Scott was such a good trainer, I've been on these courses before and I must say he was engaging and entertaining from the outset.  I feel that I got a lot from the course and that Scott made it relevant and everything could be put into a context.  A highly skilled trainer who knew how to work with the audience.  Top Marks for him!\
\
Ron Miles, the instructor of the course, was friendly and professional with a confident air, very pleased with the content of the session. The venue was satisfactory with drinks available and walking distance from the station. My only comment would be to have a more defined lunch break as I was not advised to bring my own lunch and the closest places were not near enough to get food during the breaks provided.  James Jordan\
Very good, enjoyed the day and learnt a lot \
Very helpful for fist aid training, learnt a new few helpful points, the trainer was very informative he spoke and explained everything very well. Great course to be on.\
Trainer was very knowledgeable and relaxed and made it easy for people to participate.  Course was well paced and staff felt confident in their learning at the end of the day .\
A lot of content not easily captured in one day\
All staff attending enjoyed the course and felt they had successfully achieved their goals\
can't get http://greencrosstraining.co.uk/what-we-do/training-movies.aspx to work\
The course had great content, the tutor was informative and overall a good pace of learning.\
I found the the afternoon a lot more useful than the morning.  In the morning a lot of it was about defibrillators which I will never use so quite pointless. \
Excellent syllabus and delivery. Trainer took time to get to know all delegates and our work situation. Thorough BLS syllabus covered together plus all individuals questions answered. All delegates said they enjoyed the class, making a serious subject interesting and fun. We all learned something, including those with many years first aid experience. And perhaps the best accolade - although the course was planned as a skills update and refresher event, a late-substitute delegate attended who said had never studied any first aid - through this course Julia coached this colleague from a point of no knowledge through to full competence in just the three hours of this class. Well done. \
All 12 members of the course were very impressed by Sam Logan's delivery. His extensive knowledge and experience added just the right amount of information that we needed and we all felt more comfortable and confident in First Aid by the end of it. Please pass on our thanks to him.\
Well what can I Say, Melvyn made the course with his in depth knowledge. it made the course. I have attended numerous FA coursed in a variety of roles and found this one useful. his use of real experiences made the course very factual. the delegates did learn and in my option would be effective in FA\
Very informative and the trainer was very easy going and knowledgable\
i had great feedback from the group. Although it was a smaller space than what the trainer is probably used to, he adapted well.\
Everyone on the course said that it was very good.  They said that George had made the course interesting and enjoyable.  The content was appropriate and he related information to our school setting and made things relevant.\
Great job Gary!\
i am speaking for the colleagues who had attended the course they really enjoyed it and express how they liked the idea of being assessed as the course is going on not on the last day.\
The venue was a little depressing and the room wasn't really big enough for the purpose. Lunch or snacks were not included, this would have been a nice touch as most courses I attend provide lunch. The trainer was extremely professional and knowledgeable, I came away feeling far more confident than I have on previous first aid courses. Overall, a thorough and well received course, credit to Sam!\
Cathy is a great trainer -  enthusiastic, knowledgable, supportive and encouraging. She took us through the course material at the right pace but allowed us to ask questions, recapped on sectioned covered over the 3 days and there were plenty of practise sessions where she gave advice and assistence. I feel i have got a solid understanding of first aid, and if an incident should occur, i am confident i would be able to deal with it in the correct way. Thank you Cathy.\
Would have liked more practical, not so keen on the new format, the trainer was good.\
\
\
\
\
Trainer was able to go into a little more depth to explain subject areas using real world examples\
Very good trainer made sure we understood what she was put across to us before she moved onto the next topic\
\
\
Very good course, the layout and the way the course was conducted was good, everyone came out positive and learnt lots. \
The only thing that was quite unprofessional was we (the learners) were all sent to the wrong location on the first morning! We all had confirmation on the Holiday inn express. It was changed to Jury's inn and no one told anyone.  Training and trainer 1st class. \
Good Course, evenly paced and taught in a way you can learn\
\
In hindsight the three day course might have been preferable as there was a lot to cram into one day.\
\
\
Tim Dale presented the course excellently \
Would have prefered using a cpr mask on the dummy when giving mouth to mouth, so each time a new mask was used for each person instead of cleaning the mouth of the dummy with anti bacterial wipes in between turns.\
I have not attended the course personally. When I have met with Tim he is very professional and I have had good feedback from the staff attending \
Martin was very knowledgeable and engaging. He held the interest of the group throughout and made the learning experience a pleasure for all attendees.\
The course content was good although there was a large amount of information and advice to absorb in one day's session. The trainer kept things moving well and was able to answer pretty much all questions. His style was a little individual at times and he needs to guard against his mateyness and humour edging into inappropriate territory and lack of professionalism.\
\
Very good indeed. Best FAW course I've attended to date. Faisal was very knowledgeable about the content and answered any question thrown his way. I was also impressed with the learners book which I've not seen before.\
Course was a bit long.  An hour shorter might have been better  \
Great  Course \
The training room was too cold in the morning and too hot in the afternoon; the course was a little basic in parts where they were almost giving us the answers rather than teaching us. Some things were covered for too long where as others not enough. There was not a lot of practical exercises on day 3.  The trainers were very knowledgeable but Geoff was quite confrontational on occasions. \
\
great course, updated all relevant first aid revisions. Changed allot since my last Red Cross Training. Excellent trainers and material. \
Really enjoyed the first aid course and as I have never attended one before felt it was very informative. Matt was very good and he is across as being very knowledgeable. A big thanks to Matt as I was a bit nervous attending however he put me at ease \
Very knowledgeable and really enjoyed course\
Course content and materials were excellent - both clear and easy to understand\
\
\
I was annoyed that the first 2 courses I booked on were cancelled, the second time if I hadn't queried the course code repeatedly I don't know when I would have found out even though I explained that it was crucial I attend a course asap. I therefore had to travel 55 miles to get a course rather than 15 as originally I thought. I was also told the course was close to Dundee railway station which clearly it wasn't.\
\
Some videos showing different situations where first aid knowledge will be called upon - fallen down stairs both conscious and unconscious.   \
\
\
Eileen really impressed all the candidates,they were worn out on day three. We like the fact the staff get special green cross cards now, to say they are first aid trained.\
Found the content of the course interesting. As always refresher training is good and the course was a good reminder of health and safety in the workplace.The trainer was passionate about the subject and made the training less boring then past trainers. \
Course was excellent and well presented\
excellent for basic first aid\
the two girls who came from our store said the course was great and the trainer was a very nice lady. They both came back buzzing and ready to tackle any first aid calls the store gets\
Feed back from colleagues on the course was that the trainer was great and that they enjoyed the course. He got the points across giving great examples, did it in a way that colleagues that had little confidence felt more confident that they had the knowledge to give first aid. Those who had experience and  maybe had gotten a few details incorrect he steered them to the right direction without taking away their confidence and ensured they remembered going forward by giving great examples. No negative feedback from any colleagues. I will be trying to get my couple of colleagues that need training that were unable to attend this time on one of his courses in the future.\
1] How many times to we have to give feedback? two forms on the course and now online as well. 2] The trainer was great and used a great variety of training methods to get the content over. 3] It was the first time I have been on a first aid course which did not have tea/coffee/biscuits supplied at breaks despite it saying on the 'call up papers' 'No lunch is provided, however, tea and coffee is served during the course' 4] From previous experience, I guess I will be in contact with you again after around a month as the trainer told us we would receive our certificates within 28 days. 5] It took several months and many attempts to get on this course due to problems with your systems/processes.\
\
\
Really enjoyed the course, Phil was a great trainer, he was really engaging and taught the material well and at a good pace.\
Dennis was a great teacher and covered more than I needed really . Very impressed with his knowledge and professionalism. Thank you Dennis. \
The room was too small for the practical part of the training\
\
\
\
Fast pace but well presented. Effective & practical\
overall the course was what I expected, however I found Martyn to be a bit slow in that we finished early on the first day by 10 mins and we ran over on the second by half an hour. Not what I want on a Friday eve.  Overall the content was above what I expected. That is why I came to Green Cross training as my previous provider was not providing the relevant information.\
The colleagues who attended the course was very complimentary Of David  They felt that his real life experiance and the way in which he communicated the learning material was fantastic and they made comparisons to previous training they had attended and said David was excelent at his delivery and training style .  They felt strongly that i send this feedback cause it was very important to them they they praise David for his tallents and training .  Well Done David .  Regards mark winch  Compliance Manager \
Delegates report more than satisfied with the course delivery\
The colleagues were really engaged with the training.  Overall the experience was excellent.\
\
\
Really well run informative, well paced.\
Trainer was very friendly and welcoming!\
\
Very good course and trainer was excellent\
Confusing the way that the material ran in line with the trainer and the powerpoint.\
A very well presented and informative course.\
Well explained and  at a pace which made it easy to learn.\
The guys really enjoyed the course - they said it covered alot of detail and there where really impressed with the 'real life' scenario  They also commented on how professional and nice the tutor was - thank you \
Mark was very professional, helpful, understanding the trainees needs, polite, felt at ease throughout the session.\
\
\
\
\
knowledgeable trainer, kept a good pace\
Asked all the colleges that attended how they enjoyed it and they said they loved it, the trainer was so good and made everyone feel so at ease.  Thank you \
Sam is a very competent trainer with a wealth of Knowledge and experience which he imparts with a very relaxed style making the class feel at ease and willing to learn. Everything is explained in an informative manner and all questions fielded with confidence.\
The content was detailed without being to technical. There was plenty of background info to explain why you were carrying out a particular procedure. There was a small amount of practical which was sufficient as all on the course were on a refresher course so not time was wasted with commonsense practical such as how to put a sling on.\
Excellent feedback from my client regarding the instructor & the course \
\
\
The team really enjoyed the course and learnt so much from it. Confident and ready to tackle any first aid needed.\
Excellent training by Tim!  Very thorough, will be recommending! \
Doreen was great!! Really useful course\
Overall received great feedback from the employee's who attended the course,  found it fun and informative.   In regards to booking the course Jacqueline Mahoney made this very easy and was very helpful through out the process. Thank you Jacqueline.   Would also like to thank John for the training. \
I have spoken to everyone who has attended the course and they all found it really informative.\
All that attended the corse have feedback that they really enjoyed the 3 days and the trainer was very enthusiastic and knowledgable\
I booked the course, but didn't attend as I qualified earlier this year.  The feedback from all staff was very positive and everyone thoroughly enjoyed the course.  The trainer (Doreen) was excellent and the course was  tailored to suit delegates.  One delegate said 'It was the best first aid course I have ever been on'.  I would also like to thank Jacqueline Mahoney, Account Manager who was extremely helpful sorting out a sensitive issue for one of our delegates.  Well done and thank you Green Cross, we will definitely be using your company again.   \
Trainer very knowledgeable and pleasant but  we could have just done with him speaking a bit louder.\
This is the best First Aid Course that we have experienced.   Andrew was adept at relating the training to the needs of the school, he was approachable and had an excellent friendly manner.  He ensured that the key learning messages were delivered effectively.\
\
Faisal was a fantastic trainer, he was very informative and knowledgeable but also made it fun and made ways of us being able to easily learn and remember the skills we were taught. A big thank you to him for a great course. \
\
it was great having the course in our store.\
\
Excellent course content and delivery.\
great course well delivered\
\
Best First Aid Training event I've attended over years. The Trainer, Gary Stewart has a good instructional technique, putting everyone at ease, with No Ambulance chasing stories, allowing us to focus on the Training.  \
Really excellent. Knowledgable trainer, friendly and unfazed by us asking lots of questions! - made everyone feel at ease and explained everything clearly as we progressed through the course - so that we knew what to expect every step of the way. Plus he made us laugh :-) \
Great course!   Informative and very well planned out with theory and practical work keeping us busy and engaged.\
\
Please send me an invite in 3 years time so I can revisit my skills at a refresher course  - course was great... Carole was great.. \
\
we really enjoy the course and it is really helpful for us and i learn a lot from this course which is give me the confident to help the others.\
\
\
staff enjoyed it \
The course was poorly structured to meet the needs of the participants and didn't have enough relevant content.   More care should be taken in finding out the relevant needs of those attending the course...\
\
The training was good but having been told to get there for a prompt start at 9:00am the room that the course was being held in was not available until 9:40. There was a break again at 10:30 and the half hour lunch break started at 12:00 and went on to 13:15. As a result the units covering burns and strokes were very rushed in the afternoon session. Starting on time and keeping the breaks to the scheduled times would have meant that these units would have been covered very much more satisfactually. Apart from that and the venue being a bit downbeat, the trainer was very good \
very good coarse.\
\
I booked online and you took the money but was not added to the list for the course. The trainer sorted it out so that I could still do the course. The course was great, just a shame about the admin side prior to me attending. \
Very good course, Very good Trainer. \
\
Good explanation of Defib.  During last session where chance to practice, think it's a good idea to get a shot of using the AED in a scenario as number of people on the course were concerned about using it.  Once ran through and practiced it you could see they were more happy. Sam great as Instructor, rather than just chat and waffle and stories that he gave examples of were from experience and relevant to the issue being looked at\
The course content was easy to follow and understand.\
\
excellent \
Great feedback from those who attended and Matt presented the material very well.\
The group thought that Carol was extremey good at delivering a quality information filled course.\
\
\
Andy was brilliant he made the course fun and exciting  and i feel confident in what i have learnt.\
the new books are a little confusing I know the course is designed so you cannot fail but some sections do have answers that are nearly applicable but should not be ticked \
Trainer was fantastic, with his real life experience in providing first aid he was able to provide realistic and useful advice. And give us interesting and useful scenarios to think about.  He also made the course interesting and engaging with his great sense of humour. \
\
Absolutely brilliant. Everything was so professional yet laid back so that you can ask questions freely. The course and materials were brilliant. The trainer was brilliant and patient. Paul helped until you completely understood! Loved it. Can't wait until I need a refresher!!!\
Johnathan was very friendly, and everyone at our company all had positive things to say about him. He kept everyone engaged with the experience he has in the industry and was very professional. He definitely is a credit to Green Cross Training - I will definitely be recommending him for the future. The booking of the course was very easy as well, no issues and price was very good for the service we received. The little green key rings that he gave out were very useful for anyone in and out of the workplace.\
The training was informative and all the attendee's left knowing what to do as a first res-ponder to an accident. Tim was very pleasant and he made sure we all understood a process before he moved to the next subject. We will definitely be using Green Cross Training again in the future.\
Amazing course. The team learned a lot of valuable information. The instructor was superb!\
All very good\
I found the course to be both educational and interesting. Andrew is a great trainer and his delivery of the course content made it easy to understand and engaging. Hopefully the situation won't arise for me to use this learning, but should it ever arise, I feel fully equipped to put my life saving learning into practice.\
Instructor was very informative and was willing to answer any questions no matter what\
Great information, very informative and interesting, Mark was very engaging and knowledgeable. \
Our delegates said that they found the course very informative.\
I didn't actively participate in the training course.  However, all of our delegates said that they enjoyed the course and found in both interesting and useful.\
The tutor for this course was received really well by all delegates & co-ordinator.  Please see some of the comments made as follows: Makes the course fun. Tutor very informative. Course very well run. Made it interesting with enough time to learn and feel confident when giving 1st aid.  A very knowledgeable, friendly & patient tutor, made us all feel confident in our new skills. A pleasure to have in Ashton store anytime. Thank you.  \
this trainer went to the wrong venue and then refused to go to the right plae. leaving 12 people with no trainer. This is a huge cost to the business. \
The only problem was that we were told to go to Delepre Golf Club on the Monday at 9 but when we got there the venue had been changed to The Holiday Inn at Bedford Road .\
The course was good and the use of AED is a welcome addition, I have been a first aider for just over 40 years and have seen a lot of changes, but due to circumstances didn't renew in time so had to do the 3 day course.  Given there were only 3 students the course was still quite pushed for new people I would have though 4 days would have been better as it would allow for more practice on CPR & bandaging for new people. The room was inadequate it was just about big enough for 3 students if there had been the full 12 on the course it would have been too crowded and insufficient time and space for all practical sessions\
Great anecdotes to reinforce learning objectives. Kept the group engaged.\
Mr MOHAMMED KHAN (MAK) is a really good teacher ,funny and knowledgeable but beacuse of his condition was very hard to follow and understand.\
\
\
Great feedback from all twelve students, Sam was excellent, and our school would not hesititate to use your training in the future, thank you.  Regards Paul Tozer\
\
One of the best first aid courses I have attended, especially around performing quality CPR. The only point I would make is the explanation of type 1 and type 2 diabetes where it was explained that Type 1 is hypoglycaemic and type 2 is hyperglycaemic. This is not correct really and  think the course material (not the booklet) should be reviewed.\
Great training course. Excellent delivery from Gary Stewart and kept course flowing at a good pace. \
\
The trainer captured the attention instantly of all candidates, she was able to answer any questions very competently and all agreed they thoroughly enjoyed the course and were confident to carry out any First Aid. \
excellent course\
As a nurse i found that the content of the course and its delivery at little dry and  basic. Although i could take away some new concepts to the management of individuals in a first aid situation, the content was more a refresher on what I already knew. I would have benefited from a course that focussed more on the management of trauma such as fractures and sprains which was missing from the course i attended. The room was far from ideal for practical sessions and the course was delivered in a way that made it difficult to follow whilst trying to complete the accompanying booklet.  \
\
Good course and content - balance of theory and practical.  Came out feeling confident in being able to apply the First Aid training learnt should the need arise (both on a work and personal level).\
Melvyn very good at training and made the course enjoyable, however the rooms in Tesco weren't the best ! we couldn't use the larger room all the time and had to move twice to a much smaller one. Even in the larger room we had to move furniture around to make more space in order to practise certain procedures.\
\
\
Denis was excellent. Very knowledgeable in his field and also very personable. He had everyone in the room engaged and also talking to one another. I felt very relaxed and open to learn, I hope that I get him next time!\
\
Good, informative course that kept my interest all day\
\
\
Sam is a fantastic trainer, I really enjoyed the way he delivered the training. I thought the slides were not very realistic in terms of the photos injuries. I would happily recommend this course to anyone interested in first aid, I now feel very prepared for any first aid needed in my office or outside.  thank you \
Not enough information was gone through it would have been beneficial to have had the colleagies to have gone through how to save a child rather than an adult and the course was done each day by 3\
I have excellent feed back from all that attendants said he made them feel at ease and that they learnt a lot of new and important information. Would highly recommend Dennis and his trainingmethods\
All of the delegates completing the course were happy and ready to be first aiders, Julia managed to fire them up and they stayed late to do a check on all the First aid boxes\
hotel conf room not upto standard\
highly recommend the course.\
Excellent.  Richard catered to our individual needs and made the course relevant to us.  Resources were useful and completing the  booklet enforced the learning.  Everyone came a way feeling much more confident about their role as a first aider and with more confidence to have a go.\
\
\
The room provided was not suitable for this course. The chairs provided were not suitable for this course. If the course was at this location in future then I would not attend.\
THE ROOM FOR THE FIRST AID COURSE WAS TOO SMALL.\
Very thorough and easy for all levels of staff to understand\
The trainer tured up an hour late left here with 10 people waiting for him and no knowing where he was with not even a call to tell me where he was after I called twice finally he turned up poor service and embarassing for me to have people waiting for a course.\
While the course was excellent, the venue was well below standard, with facilities and access a disappointment and a problem.  Swiss Cottage was much better.\
We enjoyed the course very much and it was informative,. The only comment for improvement I would make is that questionairs were filled oout prior to the course, asking if there were any learning difficulaties or anything that may prevent you from participating in everything. Everyone completed, but they werent collected or reffered to. had anyone gone up individually it would have drawn attention to themselves\
enjoyable, interesting and informative\
\
Very enjoyable and informative. Matt knew his subject well and treated everyone as intelligent adults and was not in the least patronising.\
Location was very poor and I would not recommend using this building again, Henry did not have any access to the building and there was no suitable room provided we had to find our own room. \
\
\
Tim was a fantastic trainer and had a great attitude. He gave us lots of real to life examples and made sure we were all confident praticing what we had learnt especially CPR - where he gave us all individual tips and techniques. It was a really enjoyable and informative course, thank you!\
Excellent course, good content and well run.  \
made it a serious subject very fun, very friendly\
Brilliant course, learnt so much and think that more people should be encouraged to go on this course\
\
The venue was not perfect, as people were in and out of the room all day. The course was interestingly run, although less frantic than most days at Tesco.\
The room provided was too small. I have already completed a paper feedback form at the end of the course, why do you need another one?\
\
This was the best first aid course I have ever been on and was thorough. I feel I have learnt allot from this and am now more confident to save lives. I feel everyone should do these courses as it is vital information.\
Great First Aid course with good content for first time learners and refreshers. Well presented with good practical exercises also.\
\
Venue Room was too small for 12 or more delegates\
\
All who attended said it was a good refresher course & would attend again.\
Marc made the course interesting and relevant to real life scenarios. it was informative and a great learning experience. I highly recomend this trainer.\
\
Feedback from the candidates was very positive\
Jan as a trainer was superb; very patient and made sure we all had a understanding before moving on. She was able to communicate the information in an easily digestible way. \
The Trainer Mr H Robertson was excellent , most courses are boreing but Mr Robertson kept everyone engaged  so as not to lose interest part way through the course.  10/10\
The feedback I had from the attendees was that the first day could have been more productive. They would have liked more time to practise CPR and more participation rather than information being read off a laptop. There appeared to be some gaps in knowledge to changes in First aid practises which was confusing, for example, previously we were trained to put a patient in recovery position on their left hand side but when asked Rachel said she hadn't heard of this. This confused some of the candidates.\
Very well structured and intense few days of learning which was good \
Trainer was excellent and made things simple to follow and understand. The room within the venue that the course was held was quite small which made it difficult when doing the practical work.\
The only unacceptable thing was changing the venue 14 minutes before starting the course - well at lease letting the participants know at that time. Certainly someone known tis before the day. \
very good course\
Trainer was exceptional and made the day both enjoyable and engaging for all. This allowed for the course content to be easily digested by its participants.\
\
Disappointed that we were not made aware of the change of venue until 30mins before the course was due to start.\
Trainers were great.  The facility organisation from Green Cross head office was shambolic.  2 rooms should have been provided 1 for the 1 day course and 1 for the 3 day course.  This made it a little awkward for the 2 trainers as they didn't know what was going on.  Shame as Sharon and Helen delivered a great course.\
\
\
Being assessed as the course went on is In my opinion the way to go. People dread the final exam as they feel so stressed. Sam Logan has a great way of explaining everything to you.\
\
I would have liked more info on child related illnesses and how to recognise them as I work with children.\
The colleagues on the course commented on numerous occassions throughout the 3 days about how excellent Gary was.\
great course. good interaction\
Good course, very informative\
Powerpoint and course manuals were good, but I was surprised that Jules did not have imitation blood, and that she was rerolling and reusing demonstration dressings.\
Very enjoyable and useful course. Julia was excellent and fostered an atmosphere where we could partake, question and most importantly, learn\
Trainer was very good and the delegates all seemed very happy with the course\
Andrew was very good the way he delivered the course, Like the way how he included real life experiences\
\
Excellent course delivery by a very competent trainer who obviously knows the subject matter very well.\
Trainer was excellent, very informative course, much we hadn't touched on before. Great course and presentation.\
\
I think it would be beneficial to incorporate formal AED & Epipen sections. Particularly the AED given the focus on CPR and the AED's benefit to survival rates.\
This was a very good course which covered all aspects relevant to my role in school.  \
\
enjoyable and eyopening\
Trainer was very knowledgeable \
\
\
Faisal was great, really direct and clear. Answered all questions we asked, very good.\
\
Allister was so patience and helpful. He makes things easy to understand.\
Great teacher made it interesting.\
Confusion over the location led to a 30 minute delay with most attendees going to a location in the town centre. The Rodney Hotel has parking for up to six cars only. The hotel's projector and screen were not compatible with the laptop/software used by the trainer.\
\
\
Informative. Lots of new things to learn\
Trainer was great and made everyone feel very welcome. He made the course fun, entertaining and had a great way of teaching.\
Trainer was excellent, great course and made it fun and enjoyable. \
 Best first aid course l have been on. Julie went into detail and no question was too stupid. She continually explained and ensured we had a full understanding of what we were being told.\
\
Doreen was a super trainer, I would specifically request her next time. Many thanks, Tracy\
My team that attended were really happy with the training that they were given.  Good location and amenities.  Will be looking to book another course in the near future.  Thank you \
\
Our trainer was excellent made the 3 days enjoyable as well as being very knowledgeable \
Helen engaged with the young people and delivered exactly what we wanted from the course which was to give a young carers confidence to be able to deal with situations as they arise.   \
\
All good but I would have preferred a bit more practical work to allow us to practice some of the skills\
I was apprehensive about this course but the trainer was amazing making everyone feel at ease and really assessed our individual needs and ensured throughout that we were understanding what was being discussed. Mick is a credit to your company. Thank you so much for an enjoyable 3 days training I will be recommending your training to others.\
i had to chase up the booking details which changed without my knowledge from Miami hotel to Saracens head in Chelmsford. Saracens head hotel is dirty , dangerous , broken chairs , carpets which are trip hazards , there was no tea coffee or biscuits supplied , overall a very poor choice of building . also no on site parking facilities \
Trainer was excellent! Good pace and stories to cement learning. Lots of practising too!\
Good course, trainer made learning easier, by getting the whole group involved\
The venue didn't know we were coming. Tea and coffee had to be paid for. Tables were broken. Toilets were tatty. No car parking at site.  Instructors projector would not work.\
The trainer was very friendly and approachable. He took time to explain everything fully and was very knowledgable. \
\
Alot more in depth than previous red cross training.\
Very impressed, kept everyone engaged from start to finish \
Jeff made sure to repeat the key things to remember several times over the 3 days so that everything sank in. He was very friendly and made everyone feel at ease.  The course content was aimed perfectly, not overwhelming but with enough detail for us all to learn how to carry out any first aid necessary at work.\
gary was a great trainer. made the learning fun and talked us through different scenrios that we might face. felt like i absorbed the information he gave me due to the way he delivered it instead of other trainers where i have been bored and not taken as much away from it  \
I was very much pleased with the whole course, honestly the trainer knows his stuff and he was well prepared. Didn't leave anything or subject  uncovered, literally touched on all the subject and was pretty clear. \
Only negative was that we didn't receive any joining instructions. It would have been simple just to have been emailed these.\
Presentation not good, could not read most of the overheads they had too much writing on and might as well not be there. The powerpoint was operated from a laptop and the trainer had to keep turning his back to us to move the presentation but he kept on speaking and we lost some of his words. I challenged the training on a number of points I knew were inacurate but he did not seem to clarify any of the points raised. The whole presentation I felt seemed to have a very negative emphasis the trainer kept on telling horror stories of what he had experienced and showed what seemed like endless pictures of kitchens with rats, droppings , equipment in disrepair etc when much of the teaching was just skimmed over.  Sorry to report back like this but after giving up a day and travelled a distance to get there I was diassapointed with the presentation\
Really well delivered course with good balance of interaction and practical activities.\
\
I booked this course for a colleague who said he thoroughly enjoyed it and had fun . Would also like to say Angela who deals with the bookings for my store by telephone  is a true asset to your team always very friendly polite and cheerful .\
\
Jo's delivery of this course was of an exceptional standard, her knowledge was vast & easy to follow. I thoroughly enjoyed this course, the venue & the delivery. The presentation was indepth, Jo was able to keep everyone focused throughout the course & I personally felt that the level of First aid that Jo was teaching would leave us all with the knowledge and then some! The course delivery & the provider (green cross), have exceeded my expectations, I am looking forward to the rest of my rteam updating with Jo/Green cross training. To include the dr fib on this course was new to me, I again thought this was of a higher standard of delivery than previous courses. The materials used to support the course were exactly right, the chocking vest was fun & the others on the course were reactive to this, it gave a true feeling of dealing with a choking casualty. I enjoyed Jo's course, as a lifeguard as was Jo, & a trainer myself for NPLQ Jo also delivered to my level aso which I was very pleased about, I liked the different levels of communication that Jo was able to create through her knowledge of teaching.\
\
Extremely well executed and pleasure to have in store many thanks .\
\
Julia was very friendly and professional, i feel i learnt a lot more than expected!\
Our trainer was great - friendly and very open to questions. Tim revised the topics and ensured we all understood. The scenarios at the end of the course were fun - the instructor got into character and made it quite realistic.\
\
I am pleased to say the course was very informative and gave us the knowlege and confidence to be able to provide first aid Bart the trainer was very good and managed a large class very well Kind regards Victor\
trainer was very good and had personality which helped greatly\
\
The trainer was very engaging and confident in her knowledge.  The course was well structured with practical activities.\
Very professional and excellent training.\
\
The delegates did not feel they had enough interaction. The statements made by the instructor often conflicted with the information given in the handbook. The course was rushed through for the number of delegates attending (10). Days were very short. Overall the delegates did not feel confident to complete the most basic instuction. The rating given is based on the instructor and the contents he shared.\
Would of been good if we got told the correct venue of course, as me and my collague got told another venue to arrive at on the monday which we arrived and got told this was the wrong location then got incontact with green cross and was then given the correct loaction which then unfortionally arrived 10 mintues late. Other than this little problem the course was such a good experiance and we both enjoyed ourselfs. We have now learnt a good knownledge of first aid, Tim was such a good trainer and made it easy to get the knowledge and to learn the first aid training. \
The trainer was 1st class, the reason for the 4 stars is the training venue was a not really up to scratch.\
The team being trained were very happy with the course!  Everyone is buzzing from it and the knowledge we have gained.  Gary is a fabulous trainer.  He should be commended for his professionalism, knowledge and the way he trains.  He made learning interesting and fun - we're wishing we had training again today!\
\
Was a great few days learning first aid. I do think if the days were longer, like 9-5/9-6 then it could be condensed into 2 days. Lima the trainer was excellent.\
Excellent course, trainer was very knowledgeable and explained everything very well\
Sam made the course very interactive and kept us engaged throughout\
Sam was brilliant , he made what could have been quite a hard going course easy to understand.   The only downfall were the facilities , would have been better if it was not in a small training room in Tesco store. That was outwith control of trainer though. \
My name is Christine White. I attended this course. I have been doing first aid for 16 years and this is the best training I have ever had. The trainer was enthusiastic, he made sure that we all understood each part of the training. He made it interesting and fun. Excellent!! \
Over the years I have attended quite a few First Aid courses. I can say this was easily the best I have experienced. Steve Dowley has a presenting style that is laid-back and humorous, whilst also being self-assured. He obviously cares passionately about his subject and makes what can be a dry and boring subject become fun and interesting.\
\
Excellent training and helpfullness from Mick, made everyone at ease and comfortable.\
very informative and enjoyable course\
Training & Trainer excellent.  Would be good if the Admin team record their Customers (us) preferred location for courses (ie, normally home town) & send out requests at least 3 months in advance.  We always have meeting, holidays etc booked, so cannot attend some dates in the next couple of months.  Would be good if enough 2 day refresher courses available (there were lots of us on our 3 day course needing a 2 day, 2 people's certificate ran out 2 weeks prior.  Proper organisation would stop this).  In our company our Managers prefer us not to travel to other towns as this incurs travel & subsistence costs (unless a central budget was created).  Just some suggestions / improvements.\
\
The course content was easy to understand and Ben was knowledgable when queried on the content and gave very good real life examples. However when covering the material, after lengthy discussion points he would tend to skip over several slides of content which may contain important information. He would then question us on the content the next day but we didn't know what he was asking as and he would mention we covered it the day prior but it was often likely the content he skipped over.\
I would just like to say that I thoroughly enjoyed the course, & would highly recommend it to anyone. Special credit goes to our instructor. Steve is an extremely good teacher who obviously loves his job. He made the course & learning fun & extremely interesting.\
None.\
Thought the course was well run and the venue was good as plenty of room for the delegates to practice the practical elements.  The trainer was the best the delegate had ever had, he knew the material and also he had practical working experience so was able to relate to the subject and pass onto delegates in a 'real world' scenario.\
Really good course and the trainer kept it real and used testimony of how he has had to put what he teaches into practice, with some very personal stories of how he was affectede by doing first aid on a collegue. \
\
Interesting and worthwhile course.\
Trainer was excellent, really took an interest in everybody and kept the course from getting boring. \
The site used will always push the overall experience down . I have been doing courses here for 20 plus years and some things never change.  \
very informative and entertaining\
very informative and entertaining\
the venue was awful, the room was cold we had to sit on a chair no table to write on.  I was force to write in the booklet on my knee. Guests wondered into the room while we where there, very off putting. I did not know it was entertainment for the hotel guests. I had to lay down on a carpet that was dirty and smelt very bad.  I would think about using another course elsewhere if the Adelphi Hotel was used again.\
All delegates felt the course to be enjoyable and have taken away a lot  from the course. They all felt Carol was interesting and delivered the course well. \
This was by far the best first aid course I have been on.\
very well run, content was relevant and interesting.  correct pace and kept the interest of our participants well.\
\
I thought this was a really good first aid course. The teaching was excellent and reinforced with fun games that helped you to remember the information. I also like the gift you gave us of a mouth guard and gloves. Much more useful than a pen or badge.\
Really informative, good knowledge and understanding of how to implement first aid.\
Tim was an excellent trainer- grew sense of humour and excellent skills which he passed on to us effectively.\
The course was great! Very informative. However the booklet where we wrote all our answers in and notes was taken off us at the end to be sent off or something. I know we were given an official booklet with all the information in but our written answers would have been helpful to keep a hold of. \
\
Small group was great for people to feel confident and comfortable with each other. Had plenty of one to one feedback and practice \
Manual not as good as it could be. Doesn't include acronyms included in the training.\
Sarah reassured me that the course content was more than adequate for our needs and gave all of us the confidence needed if a situation should arise.\
the instuctor was very knowlegeable but it could have been improved by having more people training (there were only 2)\
\
All delegates found the training  excellent. The content was relevant to the workplace and was well presented and communicated by the trainer. \
She was very sick coughing all day was not present to have her \
Both delegates were very impressed with the course contents and the delivery by the trainer. The trainer was very knowledgeable and able to answer all questions with great confidence \
Thought the CPA for 3 Minutes was a good idea - gives a feeling of how tiring it would be in a real situation.\
\
Jo was an excellent trainer.  She explained everything superbly.  \
Will use Green Cross again\
\
\
\
\
Really nice atmosphere in the room and course was delivered with humour and in a very approachable way. Sometimes the explanations could have been clearer with a bullet point type summary at the end of each section.  We had some trouble with the online booking system for signing people on - my colleague entered 5 participants on to the website but when I came to add a 6th person later, there was no sign of the original 5 so I had to start again. I also phoned when this happened and you had no record of anyone being signed up.   Many thanks\
Jeff Bradford was a very good trainer and kept us all interested and enthusiastic throughout the course.\
\
Very happy to be part of group.I highly recommend.\
Very happy with the course which for the first time of doing it I enjoyed. Trainer was excellent, very confident and knowledgeable. We have more first aiders who are not due for the moment to be retrained but I will recommend that we book again with yourselves and will get back in touch. If possible George Healey again. This will be the third time I have retrained and he was the best trainer.   I also found the whole process of booking the training excellent and so easy.  Thank you\
The trainer was excellent. He had good knowledge and delivered the course in professional manner.\
\
\
With only five people on the course we seemed to drift of course, the course could have easily been completed in two days, I was expecting more practical than there was this could be due to how the courses have changed.\
\
This course did what it said on the tin. It was concise and easily understood. Leila worked at a good pace and the way she trained us all was very good. Very hands on rather than looking at a power point screen.  I would recommend your company without a shadow of a doubt and Lelia also.\
I only book the course i have not sat any but i have had no bad feed back\
AN  EXCELLENT COURSE.\
All our delegates were complimentary about their trainer, they found him an excellent trainer. we would be happy to have him train here again.\
Venue not ideal, limited car parking and connection problems from trainer's laptop to display projector\
After speaking with the staff attending the course, the instructor and content is one of the best that the school has received over many years.   Many thanks  Chris jones\
All the delegates found Jo to be an excellent trainer. Jo engaged with the group as soon as she started the course and kept everyone's attention throughout the day. Her presentation skills were good and Jo explained everything so it was easy to understand what needed to be done. Would definitely use Jo as a trainer again.\
The course was really good it ran at a good pace and Mark was very informative. \
\
great mix of different training methods and Doreen easily managed to get everyone involved creating a very pleasant and effective atmosphere. Good balance of recap and new material. More ocasional summaries could've been helpful to focus on the essentials. It was quite a lot of information even spread over 3 days.\
Would need more information for first time attendance.\
The course was very good.  Doreen was very delightful\
\
I learned so much on this course and it was definitely the best and most useful first aid course I've ever done. Doreen was a great trainer and her teaching methods were both interesting and helped me to remember the information.\
\
Gary was really good at engaging the group and keeping the course flowing. Great asset to Green Cross!  Jacqueline who I booked the course with was also a big help. \
Unfortunately, there had been a mix up with bookings so 6 people turned up who weren't booked on the course, although they had booking confirmations for the course.  Poor Ben had to try and sort out the mix up and the 6 unfortunately delegates were sent away - they were not happy!  Ben did a good job to try and help these people but it did mean we started 45 minutes late which is not good.  I had a mix up with my booking from a previous course, you had cancelled a course but not informed me which is why I was put on this course.  I do believe improvements need to be made to the booking/website process.\
Very well presented course. The trainer was excellent at getting the information across, checking understanding and getting group participation.  Really helped me remember everything I needed.\
it covers all the basics, we would want to change it slightly to meet our needs. \
\
Carol is a superb trainer, everyone on the course liked her. Her knowledge was outstanding. Best trainer ive e ver came into contact with. Julie Elvery.\
Attending this course is a mandatory requirement as part of my job, however I would recommend a course such as this as a very useful training for anyone. Hopefully its contents would never be required but I have twice made use of its contents in the past for minor injuries.\
Marc was brilliant, he's a great trainer and the best first aid course I have been on. We had people in the group that had never done any kind of first aid training right up to someone who had been a nurse for 20 years; he managed to keep everyone engaged and explain everything on a level that everyone in the group could understand and importantly remember. \
All felt the course was excellent and they were happy that they would be able to cope in an emergency\
Very good course. The trainer was excellent at imparting the information in various ways, encouraging group participation and reviewing understanding.  Thank you.\
\
Julia explained everything in a clear and concise manor that was easy to follow and made sense.\
All of my colleagues that attended the course really enjoyed it. They found it very informative and thought that the refresher would benefit them grately. The gentleman holding the course was very good.\
The course itself was presented well and kept my attention. I welcomed the continuous assessment style, rather than the end assessment as in previous years.    \
The course was excellent it refreshed my knowledge and informed of new changes of administering first aid.\
An excellent course the trainer was very knowledge keep the pace and focus and give the right amount of time to practice. We would like him back for future courses! \
\
Venue was not big enough for the first day and cold for most days.Trainer was good and the material was very beneficial.\
Trainer used real time scenarios and this did help with the learning.\
I like the ongoing assessment as opposed to the end test. Sam was very informative and explained the refreshment knowledge well. \
Carol is very knowledgeable and made the course interesting and engaging. I did my initial first aid course in 1987 and have done refreshers ever since and this is the best course I have been on. \
Colin knowledge was at best sporadic . He wrongly informed us of practice at times arguing he was tight. I.e. nose bleeds - he said it changed 18 months ago to  holding initially for 20 mins.etc  your book correctly says 10 mins  many more examples - blood -20stone man - 20 pints blood. Wrong.  Legal sharing of asthma inhaler . No knowledge. Important to know as could save a life . Spine -ppt and 24 bins Colin as 23 . It's 33 . Etc etc \
The overall consensus from the team was that the trainer was extremely knowledgeable on the subject and engaging with the trainees. The course book seemed new to the trainer and only towards the end realised that the trainees should have been completing the contents of the workbook as they went through the day. The last part of the training as a result was quite rushed.  There was talk that the training was in fact as two day course that was being delivered in one day?! Not sure on this.. \
I found some of the coloured writeing in the booklet very hard to read.\
\
I thoroughly enjoyed the course, the trainer Tim was excellent and gave good real life scenarios that he himself has experienced.\
as expected the course was excellent, the instructor was very knowledgeable and instilled confidence.\
The course was excellently run and the trainer was very good with the way he presented and taught the course.  He was very experienced and very knowledgeable.   I can even go on to say he is one of the best trainers I have had the good fortune to meet over the years.\
\
\
AMAZING!  Jonathan H. has made the course very interesting, he has a lovely calming voice and is full of confidence & experience to give examples.   I loved every second of this course and will definitely attend again in the future.   \
The Venue was not great -   no tea/coffee facilites (we did find a kettle and cups in an office though) \
The Staff thought that the trainer was very informative and make the course enjoyable.\
\
Enjoyable relaxed course\
I was very impressed with the  course which was informative and  covered a lot of content.\
\
All candidates have fed back that they enjoyed the course and that the trainer was extremely knowledgeable, always willing to answer any questions and easy to follow.\
No issues, all good.\
Excellent trainer and great format, mixing up the theoretical, practical, scenario building each day and great quizzes that got everyone working as a team, sharing and reinforcing knowledge.\
As the candidates are known, it would be advantageous, and simple for the people organising the course to  provide the certificate validation and expiry date to the trainer, in advance - This would save the trainer time and wasted effort validating, when they could be focussing on the course content. - Just saying :) ps this could be added to the joining instructions too, to be printed off a valid expiry of current/expiring certificates.  also  When joining instructions are sent out, it would be very easy and beneficial for the candidates to be able to view details of parking arrangements, or lack of, maybe even a link to the host site to be able to check in advance? - This would be useful in all cases.  In both comments, this would highlight the fact WC are a caring company and take the views of the candidates empathetically and not just a money making machine :) - Just saying... again :)  It would be nice for feedback on these point, perhaps If needed I could be contacted if I have not explained myself clearly enough.\
\
The course trainers were very knowledgeable and every member of staff gained a lot of information and tips.  The only negative is the cost of the course. We booked the course for 36 delegates and at no point were told that LCC would only pay for 12. This needs to be explained to others when booking a large number of delegates.\
\
Very good interactive course \
Great Trainer....\
The feedback from the attendees was very positive, particularly about the trainer\
Eileen, the course instructor was very clear on the way information was given and drew upon her experiences to help answer questions, which is always good to have in a course such as this.\
This was a very good course and very informative as well.\
this is one of the best courses I have been on. I did not know what to expect but Eileen was great and knew her stuff. she also made the course fun but also showed you the importance of the training a real skill in my eyes.  thanks   Jamie \
\
Mark was extremely knowledgeable. He made the course highly interesting and staff felt that the time went really quickly over the course of the day. \
More space in the boxes please to capture more information.\
\
given late cancellation by another company originally taking part we ended up with only 3 participants. would probably have been better with a few more.\
\
Enjoyed every aspect of the course and thought Henry was a credit to Greencross. \
The first day seemed to be cramped due to a large number of students on a one day course after that we were moved to a bigger. Room and the course was excellent \
Loved it, great fun but with a serious side, content was very good, Henry put us all at ease as we were all nervous.\
All the colleagues thoroughly enjoyed the course and learnt alot over the three days.\
You need to make sure appropriate rooms are booked for the events\
The course was very detailed and concise (for the areas that were applicable to our needs), a well planned out course. Henry was brilliant; very knowledgeable and helpful, always prepared to help if there's something you're unsure of, and he is a very funny and enjoyable person to be around (but not to distract from the nitty gritty stuff; that was taken seriously). all-in-all a very good course, very enjoyable, very informative and I would definitely recommend anyone to get in touch and get on a course, it's invaluable knowledge that could, without trying to point out the obvious, save somebodies life. Thank-you :)\
\
We all really enjoyed the course and Richard did a fantastic job of keeping everyone interested and keeping it fun.\
 The course was great, but the room was tiny which is not ideal for practical work. It was also absolutely boiling!  \
Wizzed  through slides on screen, which were also very small, very quickly & no handout given. Nice friendly chap and good relaxed attitude. Could've picked up pace a bit more in slack places, eg having couple extra child dummies. \
Overall the course was ok, unfortunately the trainer let it down, it was very much felt that one employee was made to feel 'singled out and picked on' to the point where she left the room to decide if she wanted to continue. The trainer made comments detrimental to people in there, he insinuated that one male employee would grab a child and put them in the back of their black van, this was taken offence to as im sure you will appreciate why. \
\
Very well presented, trainer had very good interaction with the group as well\
I attended a first aid course run by trainer Andrew Carter on 30/11/2015 at the Salvation Army, Chester.  I am aware that Ken Savory seems to be named in the details  above but I am unsure why.  Andrew was an excellent trainer.  He was knowledgeable, interesting and easy to understand.  As a midwife, I felt this was one of the best first aid courses Ihave been to.  The course content was relevant, up to date and well delivered.  The materials were good and nothing seemed tohave been missed.  Andrew was happy to answer questions around his subject and seemed to know his information very well. Iwould have no hesitation in recommending him to anyone else as a trainer.\
The trainer, Andrew Carter, was very knowledgeable and relaxed which created a good environment for asking questions. \
\
Course was very educational and covered a variety of situations where first aid would be necessary\
After the training completed the room should have been arranged as it was before. I had to deal with manager complaints about the room. Otherwise all was fine...\
\
Jan is wonderful! The best first aid training I've ever had by a long way. Her experience and stories are invaluable and she really focuses on increasing your confidence so you would actually step in should FA be needed.\
\
Julia is an excellent interactive teacher.\
The course was very informative and I learned a lot. The tutor presented the course clearly and seriously yet with regular injections of fun. Doreen's accent  was a pleasure to listen to - quite dramatic at times when expressing the importance of things - which made me remember it all the more!\
The course was reported to be very good, with the exception of the choice of venue. This was so cold that no one was able to take off their coats all day, making the practical side of the training very difficult. There was no heating whatsoever on in the venue.\
\
The trainer was very good and extremely engaging.  The course was very good and I would recommend it.  The venue was a good location, although the facilities poor.   We could hear another seminar in the room adjacent to ours and it was very distracting, not sound proof and at times very loud.  The room the training took place in was very small an cramped and we had to keep getting up so that we could see the trainer when she did demonstrations.  I would not recommend this venue for a conference. \
The course was good and really useful and the member of staff trained has completed a survey directly.  Please note that despite having my name on the E-mail address you have spelt Michele incorrectly and given me another surname! \
overall the course had good content and facilities at site were good . but tesco shpould have at least cleaened the floors prior to the course .  as some of the scenarios and training has to be carried out on the floor .\
very pleasent trainer and he left the training room how he found it.\
one of the candidates was an experienced first aider and the other 2 were complete novices however they all felt that the pace/content of the course matched their needs. \
Many strong feedback comments from all who attended, thank you and well done\
Excellent course with a lot crammed in.  Could have done with a bit more time\
The course wasn't at Hazelmere - it was at High Wycombe Cricket Club who forgot they had the booking and turned up at 9.20am to open up. I was stood outside with the trainer for nearly an hour waiting for them to arrive. So the course was delayed and I was freezing. Wasn't the best start to the day\
Enjoyed the course\
#NAME?\
The trainer was really nice made the course very enjoyable . He had excellent knowledge and answered all questions and could tell that he really cared. \
It was a great course and I learned a great deal of new practical skills. Gary is a great trainer, really makes it interesting and is knowledgeable about his subject.\
Paul the trainer was the best part of the course. Seriously brilliant trainer. \
\
EXCELLENT FACILITATOR, VERY GOOD KNOWLEDGE\
\
Room was a bit grim and seats were  uncomfortable\
Initially the course was a little confused - two trainers (1 for 1 day course and 1 for 3 day course) which lead to a little confusion over roles and responsabilities during the morning.   Room wasnt prepared for the full amount of people attending.   Course and info great - just the set up and organisation needed a little more attention.\
\
Nadia kept the class interested over the entire three days and had an in-depth knowledge of the subject. She was   able to answer all questions posed and reinforced the techniques using examples and background detail . \
it was a brilliant course.  the trainer was fab and was really accommodating towards all of us.  really enjoyed it and would definitely recommend the course.\
Mark Noble is the best 1st aid trainer I have had. He's engaged, knowledgeable, and deeply committed to helping students learn.  However Green Cross admin is truly awful.  We were notified of the change of venue less than 1 working day before the start of the course, and two of the attendees were not notified -- so they went to the wrong venue. Our course also had people on it who were doing 1 day training, as well as 2 people doing the 3 day course--and no one had mentioned this to the instructor.  Truly astonishingly poor communication in your office.  Will try to train with the same trainer, but will avoid your company if at all possible.\
\
\
Had a wonderful day  the size of the class  was right very knowledgeable Gary Stewart is thank you \
\
\
Trainer was great however the course was massively oversubscribed on the first day with 14 people in a room that should really have accommodated 6 at most.  This caused the EXCELLENT trainer confusion and un-necessary stress and gave a very poor first impression to the delegates.  You guys need to sort out your Admin and Booking Department!\
Jeff and Eileen made the course very enjoyable and easy to understand. The only thing i would suggest is that at lunch break, maybe sandwiches could be laid on for the group. \
your booking team doesn't seem to know what they're doing to be honest. Unnecessary stress and delay for all involved. Too many people in a small room causes and multitude of issues and it should not be the trainers responsibility to decide who can stay and who should go. I heard from several delegates that they had been turned away from another training a few weeks earlier because of this issue so it's an ongoing thing and is not being taken seriously. \
Would have expected some form of lunch to be provided on site as there where no places nearby to purchase a sandwich or hot snack?   The trainer and course were excellent \
It would help if you gave people the right postcode, a few of us went to different venues, two people supposed to be on a three day course but on a one day course through wrong postcode. administration terrible. Hotel that we ended up at had no room booking but this was sorted in the end so course started 40 mins late, 3 people out of 11 turned up, makes you wonder which hotel the other 8 people got sent too incorrectly\
The room was a bit on the small side for the size of the group. Also. myself and other 4 people were given a different venue so we all were a bit late, which was inconvenient. The trainer though was really good a kept the content interesting for the whole day. \
I was sent to the wrong place and had to travel across London.  The pace was very rushed unnecessarily so and finished an hour early, with a very short lunch break.  \
Day 1 of the course appeared to be 'dummy' like and by lunchtime felt like the pace was far too slow. However, it could also be that because I, personally do a lot of data analysis; I happen to feel that way.   The trainer however was very good. He was patient and his style of teaching could not be faulted. There was real structure and every session flowed from one section to the next.   The book was also handy to have as it can always be easy to forgot what a process is / was. \
Good basic introduction to using the tool. Pace of the course at points was a little slow, and whilst referencing the course book occasionally, as it was not used actively throughout the course, it made 'making notes' on relevant parts difficult, so the book may not be referenced as much after the course.\
Good introduction to Webi.\
If case studies also provided to trainees, it will be great practice to us. \
The course was thorough and a great foundation to building universes using both UDT and IDT. I am sure what we  have learned will help us to push through the current features and fixes we have to currently undergo.\
Simon was very knowledgeable and made things clear and easy to follow.\
I cannot comment on course content and material as I have not studied the material yet.\
A very well put together course. Thank you.\
Si the trainer was excellent. Knoweledgeable, approachable and was able to show and explain the subject in a clear and easy to understand way.\
I felt that the course was well planned out and informative. The pace of the learning was perfect. I feel that this course has given me enough knowledge to comfortably use business objects effectivly within my organisation.\
\
small comment, the version of Business Objects we used to train on was JAVA based, our business uses the HTML version so a few of the elements of training are not available for us to implement unless we have a different version. The course was good\
The course was very good in providing an understanding of how Business objects works and how data can be manipulated to provide a more comprehensive analysis. Simon the trainer was excellent and was able to demonstrate the functions of business objects in a clear and concise manner. \
\
It was a very well construted and run course \
Well presented .....did not make it too geeky \
I really enjoyed the course and found myself engaged to the content. Simon went at a comfortable pace for everyone and there was a good amount of practical exercises. Thank you\
Really enjoyable course with a knowledgeable trainer. Really engaging and a good balance of practical work and powerpoint/direction. The course materials are also excellent and I now feel confident using the system in my office. \
\
I found the course to be both enjoyable and informative. It had the right level of introduction and more advanced concepts that were easy to learn. The course teacher was also very helpful.\
\
I found some of the course a bit comples and felt it could have been split more over a basic and intermediate level. \
\
\
I truly enjoyed the training presented by Simon. He is an great trainer.\
It was a really useful course - I only wish I had known about it sooner.\
\
Simon was methodical, instructions were very clear and overall the course was very useful.\
It is very good in contents but context needed to be more fit to purpose also atendees levels. Probably better off doing more on merging reports and dimentions, because those have been used more often first, before creating variables. However for me it is very useful and I created report much better than before. But I know other people who attended the course did not much about building reports, they might not be able to use those skills. \
course content and materials were fine.\
\
\
Some more advanced options may have been good (can't comment as we never gat these), but realise this would be in the advanced course.  Overall, however, very good training.\
I found the presentation style, content and format of the training excellent and would recommend it to anyone wanting to develop their understanding and skills.  The course trainer was excellent and his approach was just what I needed to gain the maximum out of this course.  I have now found a greater understanding of how to edit and publish data to its best effect from simple charts to exciting 3d pie charts.  Many thanks\
Simon is a great trainer but I could have been challenged a bit further in this advanced course as it seemed to tail off a bit\
Simon is a fantastic tutor and I have a far greater understanding of Webi following these 2 days.  I really appreciate tapping into his knowledge and will be able to transfer a lot of this knowledge into my day to day.  Thank you \
Course extremely useful building on from the Basic Course attended previously..Many thanks.\
Very good trainer \
\
Very useful to extend my self taught knowledge\
\
\
Excellent, informative course. Very well taught. Thank you Simon.\
\
Another very insightful illuminating course on the dark arts of Business Objects\
Great course and content.. Very useful..\
Simon has a very personable manner which made the training very easy and a pleasure to be in.\
The course covered more than what felt like the basics but made them feel basic (easy to use). Simon was great at going at a good pace which allowed all to catch up and move on at the same speed.\
This course has been really informative and I am really looking forward to the advanced course tomorrow too.  Thanks Simon, really insightful\
Very good into into the use of Business Objects.\
Really great introduction to Web Intelligence\
\
\
Simon was great. Thanks Simon for making the 3 days of training easy to understand. A lot of usful information was covered. He handeled the course with a good peace and orderly . His examples were very relevant and I feel that I gained a lot from him.\
Great course, great trainer, very approachable and knowledgeable and patient.\
Good structured course\
\
Simon was very Knowledgeable and did a great job at explaining everything over the 2 days \
\
\
great course, picked up alot of useful information.\
\
\
This course was sufficient because I had been using the new product for several weeks already and therefore had a fair idea of what I knew, but more importantly, what I didn't know and required instruction/assistance on. Without that, and my years of prior use I would probably have needed a much longer course.\
course went at good pace and recapped which helped the learning process\
It was a well planned and run course. The only improvement would be if it had a workshop element to address specific needs, but the trainer was very helpful in answering questions.\
A good pace to work at, not too fast as I have found on other courses.   It would be useful to have a PDF version of the manual.  If this is available can you advise?    Thanks\
\
Found the course very informative and emphasised the importance of formal training on any new system being implemented.  \
i'm yet to explore the whole contents book\
\
The course met our requirements and the pace of the sessions was what we needed.\
\
\
All good  Just screen too small (thats CH issue) \
\
The course was very informative and the pace was just right for learning purposes. The trainer was very professional and patient, taking the time to ensure that all trainees were supported during the training\
I thought this was an excellent course and exceptionally well delivered.\
Course was extremely useful  and delivered in a way which enabled participants to visualise how they could utilise the tool in their area of service. I would highly recommend this to others. \
Course was very informative, with the trainers excellent guidance and knowledge I was able to learn the upgraded system and new skills.  \
Valuable information gained and has made me think about the way we are using Webintelligence within my organisation.  Well paced and any and all questions were answered. \
\
Very informative and well paced.\
Really enjoyed the two days training. Simon our trainer took us through the course at a good pace and answered any questions fully.   The book given out at the training goes through each section in great detail and will be a good reference source for using the system on an ongoing basis.  Only thing I would say was that access to the system was delayed on the first day due to telephone engineers.  So there was some time wasted waiting to get in to the system.\
A really good course, that gave lots of tip and hints at building and modifying reports to gain access to the data required.\
\
A well presented course, that taught me an awful lot. I very much appreciate it.\
Course was excellent, Trainer very patient and easy to understand. Small group of four so the pace was comfortable but by no means too fast. \
A comprehensive overview of WI from a knowledgeable and experienced trainer who delivered the course clearly and at the right pace.\
\
Similar to a previous course I have attended but I felt the delivery and detail of this course was much better.  I use Business Objects quite regularly but still learnt some new skills that I will be able to use at work. \
Very helpful course.  Unlike other courses I have attended, the trainer was flexible and had expertise that enabled him to address any Business Objects related query and give advice related to our organisation's specific universes. I had used Business Objects before but learnt lots of shortcuts and will now be able to work more efficiently.  \
I was self taught on the application and I found that the content and speed the course was delivered at was ideal for me and hopefully the rest of our attendees. I am now more confident in the way I can build and present reports. \
\
\
\
\
Thanks for the very detailed course materials - these will be very useful for training our users in Hong Kong\
A well structured, well delivered course. I got everything I wanted from it (and more) and would definitely recommend it to my colleagues. I would definitely consider doing a course on Universe Design. \
The course covered the relevant areas and certainly provided me with the knowledge to be able to use Business Objects.   The only caveat was that the pace of the course felt a little slow and as an experienced data analyst, navigating through Business Objects was pretty straightforward and believe the course could have been delivered in half the time for experienced analysts.  \
The course and the trainer were both good. I didn't feel it needed to be a full day course, as we finished mid-afternoon. The resources were excellent.  To be made even better the course could be tailored to the applicability of the tools/skills to John Lewis in particular - even just some suggestions along these lines would make the course more helpful.  Unfortunately there seem to be some technical issues with using the java version of Business Objects within the John Lewis systems. This is not a fault of the training but the compatibility of the content with our systems capacity should be checked by a JL expert so this can be addressed.\
Very informative and explained well. Simon very patient!  Looking forward to putting what I have learnt into practice.\
A lot covered - will probably need a refresher once i play with it a bit!\
Really useful course - great introduction to BOXI and what it can do\
Very good enyoyed it but need to practice learned materials\
The course is great and I learnt a lot and Simon taught as a pace that worked. But there is so much information it would be good to have it in 2 parts so can go away try it and have a half day mop up.\
Simon was great, very clear and concise and was able to answer all questions thoroughly. A shame the training guide does not include how to run year on year reports as this would be helpful but a great course nonetheless. Thank you Simon.\
Very useful to cement knowledge of Bobi and to learn some new functionality.  Also useful to have the manual to refer to and the option of doing an advanced course to further knowledge.\
\
The course was incredibly useful, it would be better if we could spend more time looking into individual complexities, for instance, I work in Marketing and would of liked to have looked into that more.\
\
Simon went through in lots of detail and answered all questions. Really thorough if something not understood initially\
The pace of the course was excellent with time to absorb and practice the new skills\
Very informative course.  Great structure and pace.  Simon was excellent at keeping us engaged and helping us when needed. A really good learn and practical test approach worked.   Real life examples from Simon kept it entertaining also !\
Excellent as a base knowledge builder. Simon was not only knowledgeable but also a great coach, keeping at the speed to suit the audience with engaging and questioning techniques to help keep the group on track and checking we all understood each step.  Perhaps as a team event it would have been good to relate the work back to our department data, KPI reporting, presenting tools eg graphs year on year performance to build tools to use day to day.\
It would be great to get a summary sheet which describes what each function does in practical terms e.g. Ceil 'this function is used to round up to the nearest whole number'\
Excellent tutor, clear concise instructions, waiting for people to catch up and not advancing on. \
The trainer was really clear and helpful. My only negative is I think it's just too much to learn all in one day. I would suggest two sessions.\
I found the course fairly challenging due to not having dealt with Business Objectives much in my previous roles. The trainer was very helpful but feel I lacked the intermediate understanding my colleagues had before coming on the course. I have, however, found it very insightful and will continue to look into how I can use the tools I have learnt more on a daily basis.\
Simon is a fantastic teacher, patient and very knowledgeable!\
Very well taught course that went into a high level of detail, but was simultaneously easy to follow and learn.\
Simple explanations of some complex actions really helped. Simon was able to lead the course and combine individual support effectively. Course content was of an appropriate amount and pitched well.\
Very Good indeed.\
\
Personally I could of done with more content within the day but I appreciate this would not have been suitable for everyone on the room!\
Really good course at a nice steady pace. Trainer was helpful and patient and made sure everyone was the same stage before moving on.\
Excellent tutor, clear and easy to understand, helpful, breaks the detail down into bitesize chunks.\
Great course  - good pace and great trainer (Simon)\
\
\
I would have liked to work with the manual more as I find it easier to learn with things that are written down as I sometimes find it difficult to follow just on the screen. Its just the way I like to learn. I suspect its more about how I learn and my age! I do have the manual to work through at my own pace back in the office though so thats good\
Trainer was very helpful and went through the content at a pace that was easy to follow. He also was very knowledgeable on the subject and was able to answer any questions that anyone may have had. \
The program itself is excellent   I undertsand the program was for new starters but think the data used is very basic Efashion.. More than likely the advanced course would be beneficial but for our business i know our universe is going to be alot more complex which will lead more difficult problem solving of reports\
The e-fashion environment is quite basic, which is great to learn on but perhaps would be good to see something for the last hour or so more in the equivelant size of our company!\
Highly recommend the course. This course was well structured and has plenty of demo and exercises.\
Manual very extensive, but hardly referred to. May discourage use following the course. Good to not use company data for showing items and functionality of the tool, may create additional questions once company data is being used, especially as the layout of the universe(s) is unknown at this point.  \
\
\
\
\
As with the basic training I enjoyed the course and feel it will be of benefit in the future but a relatable universe would have enhance the training.\
I enjoyed the course and think it will be a useful tool going forward.  I realise it is difficult to replicate but it would have been useful if the test environment bore some resemblance to the company universe we will be using in the future.\
I found the course really interesting.  The structure was good, with demos ahead of practical tasks - I find that is the best way to work, as I retain more information that way!\
I found the course really interesting.  The structure was good, with demos ahead of practical tasks - I find that is the best way to work, as I retain more information that way!\
Very well informed instructor\
\
\
\
A very professional and well structured course. The data we used in examples did not relate to our work however still very easily understood with regards to the reporting function. \
An good course, well paced, easy to follow. Excellent trainer.\
Course was well presented and easy to follow.\
\
\
Enjoyed the course as it was informative showing some of the capabilities of the new business objects that will be coming into use.\
Course was paced well, with detailed guidance and explanation from the tutor\
\
\
\
Training clear and concise with lots of support offered when required - learnt a lot about the system I did not know previously \
As a complete novice with Business Objects I found the training extremely helpful, easy to follow and understand.  Simon worked at a pace that was good for everyone and provided help as and when required to everyone.\
Informative and enjoyable training experience. Tutor's knowledge and presentation where excellent and engaging. The pace of the course was just right and all required learning outcomes were achieved. \
I found the training very useful as an awareness package and in informing me as to what functions are available. \
Very helpful trainer.  Good pace.  Resources excellent.  Simon was able to answer all the questions put to him, even those that were not covered in the course.  \
\
\
\
\
The content covered was excellent and well explained. I'd have liked a bit more breadth, along with the depth\
two venues were listed on the joining instruction, while they were only a minute apart this was a touch confusing.\
Simon was really engaging and made potentially something complicated and boring, interesting and easy to understand! \
\
Simon was fantastic as epxlaining the conecpts in layman's terms\
I really enjoyed the training. While I do not any tech background I am preparing the reports for my team and I have an interest in databases. The material was very good and the trainer answered all questions streight to the point and helped everybody when we got stuck. Not to mention the fact that all explanations were clear and logical. Though at the beginning I was more an Excel fan, by the end of the course I changed my opinion, perhaps due to the dynamism of Business Objects\
Good trainer, explained well, examples were relevant and excersizes were helpful. Simon also took the time to answer questions about particular requierements we have from Business Objects which were outside of this course material.\
I found the course very enjoyable. The content was good along with the practical examples. Doing the examples enabled you to take on board the information better as you were putting things into practice rather than just watching someone explain how to use the reporting tool.  \
\
Fantastic Course, very well presented by Simon who made it easy to understand and digest. Useful material provided also to aid going forward with the software.\
Simon provided a very useful overview of the reporting possibilities in Business Objects. His excellent knowledge of the product helped me understand some areas where I can make improvements in my organisation. A formalised training has helped me understand the possibilities of Business Objects.\
Fantastic Course !!!\
\
Both this IDT training and the Advanced Reporting Web Intelligence courses have been interesting, informative, useful and well delivered by Simon who clearly has invaluable experience and knowledge from which I have benefited.  The supporting documentation provided is clear and easy to follow, providing a useful reference guide for the future.\
I have rated it all 5star because it was worth it all the way. The trainer was very hands-on. I especially liked the real world examples and the opportunity to reproduce issues that are usually encountered, and then showing how to resolve them. Taking the  course has made a good difference.\
Really useful course that introduced more advanced Boxi skills- in particular writing syntax, in a really easy to understand format. The course was a good balance of explanation and practical activity giving you the chance to practice what you had just been taught. Simon Jackson was a great course tutor, giving clear explanations and making the learning process easy to understand and process.\
Excellent trainer with good pace and ground covered. In terms of the course layout I thought it was good and the take home book really helpful. In terms of looking forward I would suggest questioning each person to say an example of where they might use/ build this report within their role to ensure that students can apply the learning to their roles and use the skills they've learnt in the course.\
The pace of the session was very good as it was easy to follow and was aimed at just the right level. There was a good combination of watching and then practicing with an example on our own.\
Extremely good - pitched at just the right level for my experience (1 year of using BOXI intermittently during day job).  Really good mix of showing and explaining and then allowing us to have a go practically. Very clearly explained and all flowed really well.  Thank you!\
Super useful and engaging\
\
Good pace, very interactive.\
The trainer is friendly and very experience with the subject\
As there were no courses left for Waitrose specific partners I had to book on to the JLewis course and so this was obviously skewed towards their heirachy systems and so some of the actions could not be replicated with our system.\
Very interesting course.\
Easy to follow, well tailored to audience.\
It is a JL course but there could have been a Waitrose manual available \
\
\
Really engaging and useful. \
\
I've really enjoyed the course. I thought it was pitched at the right level and difficulty.\
Information which will make a big difference to day to day efficiencies and effectiveness. I will be recommending others go on this course!\
A complex subject but easy to learn and good hands on practice.  \
Useful course, objectives discussed at the beginning and fulfilled by the end of the course. Engaging and well informed trainer. The course has taught me things that will hugely help my day-to-day job. \
Very useful, full of hints and tips which will make reporting much easier from now on. Taught at good pace.\
Really useful course, can get quite technical and at times feels complicated but well presented and plenty of options for slowing things down / asking questions etc. Overall very good and will be used a lot going forward.\
Good course, very relevant to my work. Simon is a good communicator and explains the functionality very clearly. I felt that for some of the examples it would have been better to follow Simon at the time, rather than watching him and then having a time pressure to complete them myself, otherwise it was very helpful.\
\
Some great content and a really engaging presentation style. Definitely improved my confidence and taught me some useful tricks - good balance between theory and practical engagement.\
Great course, really informative and gave really good insight into what BI can do.\
\
this has been an eye opener for me good course\
The pace was great, it allowed all ranges of knowledge to take part and not feel overwhelmed by the information. It was a very open environment and allowed us to ask other questions that may have taken us off on a tangent, but benefited me in my day-to-day role. Really enjoyed the day, thank you. \
Very useful course, explained well and at a good pace. \
Very good introduction\
Very beneficial for a new user. \
Simon was really engaging and interesting and answered any questions with ease.  Would definitely recommend the course and will be attending the advance one with Simon when the next one is available.\
Very informative, not rushed to make reports course at my pace rather than being rushed through. Clear and concise instruction\
Simon was a really good tutor who ran through in good pace and made an ultimately dry topic into something more interesting. I found the course really helpful in building on my basic level of the system and feel far more confident in building my own reports back at work. \
Really informative course and felt comfortable asking questions if I was unsure of anything.\
Lot of content and how much of it sticks remains to be seen, but in general the pace and method was clear and well managed.\
Very useful to anyone wanted to learn more and write own bobi reports\
\
\
All good, I would just spend less time on the titling formulas as I can't really see most users needing to do that and there was quite a bit of time spent on that.   Would be good to be shown how to schedule reports for emailing instead\
Excellent course pitched at the right level\
\
\
Well run course that did exactly what I needed it to do. Simon was really helpful with our wider questions about the product. Best training course I have attended for a long time.\
\
The training is a must have. It was very hands-on. Simon carried everyone along. I learnt a lot and would definitely recommend. Excellent! \
Simon knows hi  stuff and puts it across in a very easy to understand way. Very good course\
very well paced course with a helpful instructor\
Very well structured with good division between showing/telling and practical examples.\
\
I felt the course was very thorough and was presented in a very professional manner\
The trainer was good at explaining on a high level the concept of reports and  data visualisation which I thought added great value to the course. \
\
Really useful - particularly the afternoon (some of the morning stuff we had already covered in the basics course we had done before but it was a good refresher). I particularly liked the last challenge where you are give a problem you have to solve - it might have been good to do some of this earlier rather than just copying what we had just seen to better test understanding and raise questions if needed\
\
The course material was very similar to basic course. Felt like the first half of the day was a repeat of basic course.\
\
\
Simon had great expertise, knew the Business Objects solution and wider BI industry inside out. Was able to deliver an engaging session based on my requirements - quickly reviewing the areas I was familiar with and going into much more detail with the more detailed functionality. Would highly recommend. \
Useful course and took the opportunity to expand on the subject area where it was relevant to the course group.\
Very informative and useful for my role moving forward.\
Another great course\
Thought it was very useful and well explained.  I would of personally find it even more useful to have gone through more practical examples using BO if we had more time.\
Good pace in the course and balance of showing functionality and then practicing using an example. Explanations of background behind how business objects works and database structure was really useful in building a wider understanding of business objects\
Really great course, exactly what I needed. Course speed was great with the right balance of presentation and practical work to keep everyone engaged. Simon was very professional and engaging.\
\
Second BI course with Simon - great trainer, would definitely recommend.  I'll be on the lookout for the next level up of BI training now!  Thanks ! \
\
Fantastic course, great mix of practical and theory. Able to go at own pace and felt really comfortable asking questions. \
Simon was a true pro and certainly knows his subject area. It was also entertaining and engaging. He was very patient with the people who were lagging behind as well.  Thank you.\
I really enjoyed the course content and practice, my observation would be that I felt that we could have done a lot more practice on Day 1 earlier on in the Day.  The course started at 9:30 am and the speaker talked from 9.30 ish to almost 3 pm, except breaks.  I appreciate that it is important to go through some theory but that was rather long.  Day 2 was significantly more enjoyable  although there was not enough time to do combination queries, which no doubt is much more tailored made for the work that the Islington Performance Team at Islington carries out.  \
I thought the course was outstanding:  - It more than covered the brief.  - ALL aspects were clearly and succinctly explained using a combination of theory and real world examples.  - It was grounded firmly in reality, advising upon what Business Objects is good at, whilst outlining what it is not good at.  - It emphasised the importance of data quality / ETL activities / data warehousing.  - It was not a sales pitch.  - The trainer was always readily understandable and approachable.  - It helped to give me a sense that our approach to our jobs, while not ideal, is a good tactical solution conditioned by the environment within which we work e.g. lack of data warehouse / lack of access to better ICT solutions / lack of organizational commitment to data quality  - It also will help me to find better language through which to convey to others the ramifications of a lack of organizational commitment to data quality.   \
Excellent, really useful, helpful and informative. The trainer Simon was very patient, had excellent communication skills and simplified how BOBI works. I found the whole day very engaging and interesting. Really pleased I attended. Thank you!\
Simon was really approachable and knowledgeable. Kept the content easy to follow and gave us the opportunity to ask real time questions, with real situations. Made it sink in when it is relatable and could be put into practice.  \
Great content and presented at an ideal speed, would definitely recommend!\
Something that was initially complicated was made really straightforward and easy to understand by Simon, really great clear and engaging tuition.\
\
The course content  was good and I felt I had achieved a good understanding of basic writing skills by the  end of it. The delivery of the course was paced well and the content manageable whilst allowing  allowing time for questions and queries.   \
* The information was very useful and easy to follow. * It was good that Simon was flexible in allowing us to ask many questions, which weren't always in the booklet (simple but useful hints and tricks) * I liked how Simon when through an example and then we followed after.  * I found the lesson interactive which is the best way I learn.  \
Really thorough and clear run through of all the functionality of the system. Lots of infoirmation, a bit apprehensive about going away and using it on my own, but I am sure I will find my way with the manual \
\
Simon was clear, concise with a good pace\
Went a good speed and working in a small group was good\
Engaging and informative. Simon was concise and clear with his instructions - thoroughly enjoyed. Also changed my opinion on favouring excel for data management.\
Good pace and all very well explained. Made a fairly tricky subject a lot simpler!\
\
Quite interesting but basics are covered as part of the course. I think, this was designed to be like this. Simon was helpful and happy to discuss other options.\
\
\
The report was run at a good pace and took us through the basic and advanced training very smoothly.  I feel confident that I am now able to use the full range of functionality within Webi.\
\
This was the first time that a trainer has actually made BOBI practical and easy to understand. I feel confident in writing material for myself for the first time and I actually GET it. I would highly recommend anyone new to BOBI goes on this course with Simon. Every training module and exercise was relevant and built up in steps that made perfect sense\
Very Clear and sorted out everones querys\
Excellent course. Learned a lot about report writing\
\
A very engaging presenter, Simon talked through each process clearly & concisely to aid Partners understanding.\
I only new how to refresh reports, i am now very excited in going back to the office and running all sort of reports.\
We should have had this course before BOBI went live. Well worth spending the day. Best BOBI course so far.\
\
\
\
good to get the basics done\
I really enjoyed the course and found it to be very beneficial to my role. Simon was very patient. Simon pitched the course at the right level. I would recommend to my colleagues to attend. \
Really good course, which will now give me more confidence to write reports \
Well explained & engaging\
\
Very useful for a new learner. Good content.  Recommended\
It was comprehensive and well explained. The only comments I would have was that it was a bit slow paced for myself - I'm very comfortable with data manipulation etc in Excel/gSheets, so some of it was a bit too basic. That said, some people in the course clearly needed those basic steps through the beginning few hours. \
Was great to have time to practice after being shown. Glad to have received a manual.\
Course was very good and covered the information i needed and exercises flowed very seamlessly. Very hands on course which is good as that's what you need to learn. \
I liked that we moved on from the basic bits quickly to functions that we will be able to use in our roles.\
Well paced and informative. I feel confident as a user of BOXI.\
\
\
Found the course a bit more than 'basic'.\
\
Very good, and went a lot further than I expected from a 'beginner' course. I suppose the only feedback would be whether we could run a cut down version for Partners who may only need to run reports rather than create and edit them (possibly just a 2 hour session)\
\
A really useful course to better understand how Business Objects works & reports are created etc. It is a bit of a shame I do not have the necessary user access to make full use of what I learned but useful knowledge nonetheless for the future\
Well presented All questions asked were answered clearly and comprehensively Training moved at a good pace (not too fast but not too slow)\
It was a bit basic for myself but it did reinforce some of my previous learning, it was also interesting to see some different ways of reporting\
\
\
It was a very good course and covered the topics well and at a good pace.  I had prior experience which helped but was pleased how quickly things were covered.\
The course was very informative and helped a lot with my job. I feel a lot more confident in Business Objects and Web Intelligence and hopefully this will help me in future to write reports.\
Very good and informative course. \
Excellent Course well presented by Trainer\
I couldn't fault anything about the 2 days.  I took a lot from it and am looking forward to being able to put what I've learned into practice.\
\
\
The course was well presented and will enable and encourage staff to embrace this change.\
\
\
\
\
Manual will be useful to take back and refresh.  Looking forward to the advanced course.\
\
Really good course and learning style from Simon which really helped me through.\
\
\
Excellent course and very engaging. \
\
Really enjoyable - had some queries I needed answering which was already covered on the course - i.e variable and formula building \
Found the day really useful and beneficial. Have learnt many new things that I will take away with me. Simon was great in answering our questions about relating the learning back to our job. \
Concerned it would be slightly too advanced for my abilities, but I was wrong. You'll be hard pressed to make this all singing, all dancing, but I didn't fall asleep, if that helps!!\
Great!\
More  complex examples of merging queries might be useful and perhaps some JL specific case studies\
\
\
Very thorough. Pack at first glance also looks very thorough -maybe a little over whelming, maybe if the contents sheets at the front were in a slightly different format ie. benefits driven or broken down with big headers ie. Filters, Sections etc.\
\
\
It is very good course for a total beginner.\
\
Great course - but basic was a bit too basic for me. However have learnt some new things!\
Great facilitator very engaging and interesting. \
Due to the variance in level of experience within the group, some of the discussions made little sense however Simon took the time to explain in simple terms, any discussions that were of relevance.  The worked examples of the system functions were really helpful\
Voluminous but informative\
It was really useful for me as someone who hasn't previously written reports in Infoview, I went along to see if there was anything that may be of interest aroundo what I do, but I ended up getting a whole lot more.  It was good to be able to actually build reports, it helps to see what is possible rather than being lectured at about how great something is, there were potential solutions that became apparent during the day which may not have without a hands on session.  I look forward to training with Simon in the future as we upgrade.  All very good !!\
\
Informative introduction to universe design.  I feel I have a good understanding and that I could have discussions with designers now.\
I think this has been the best course that I have been on.  Both the content and the pace of the course delivery were excellent. Simon was very engaging and interesting.  I now feel that I am able to start to go away and make use of business objects in the context of my work.\
I think this has been the best course that I have been on.  Both the content and the pace of the course delivery were excellent. Simon was very engaging and interesting.  I now feel that I am able to start to go away and make use of business objects in the context of my work.\
Excellent course - well delivered.  \
I found the course very useful - it was pitched at a good pace and level.   I feel confident that I can start to produce BO reports. It would be useful to have a catch up session included, say in a month or so to maximise learning.\
\
Read course handouts before but a bit voluminous.  Training much better and trainer very knowledgable and personable\
Thanks, all was good.\
Excellent trainer - well paced and delivered\
\
A little slower than I would have liked, but there were a range of skills around the table\
\
\
Course was great, good speed, feel I've walked away with the understanding that I need. \
\
The course  was right in material and level for what I needed. \
Simon made what could be a very dull day very interesting and delivered the course really well. \
Really useful course and really good at explaining how the system works to us.\
very useful, definitely feel that I'm now equipped with the necessary and appropriate information to use this software properly. Much needed knowledge shared!\
\
\
Simon is very personable and explained things in a clear and concise manner.\
Well explained and good knowledge by Simon\
Very enjoyable (quite heavy going)\
Very enjoyable (quite heavy going)\
Course was excellent, the materials (course handbook) not quite up to the same standard.\
Very good introductory course to BOXI. The course was well structured & the learning material was well written and easy to follow. \
This course was very good and relevant.  Simon is very skilled and knowledgeable in this field.  He was able to answer all of the questions posed and was very personable and explained content with great clarity.\
Very good overall, will use the skills taught regularly over the coming weeks.\
\
\
Easy to follow sessions with engaging trainer. \
\
I came into the course completely cold, but the content was really logical and well paced. The reference material is really comprehensive too, so it's good to have that to refer to, when my memory fails me!\
Thorough course, covered a lot of detail. I had seen some of the material before, but that was not the course's/trainer's fault!\
The course was good. A few bits were overly complicated for types of applications I have. Would have liked a lot more time making reports in our environment as found that when I tried to use  our own system the next day I not able to apply the learning as the environment was so different. More time using our environment and more time to ask questions and create our own reports during the training would have been more beneficial. The trainer was very good and very knowledgeable and had a good style, just the balance of course could have been more time on our database and missed out some of the more complicated formula elements. The trainer did very kindly help set up a report for me, but unfortunately  it did not bring back the data I needed due to our complicated universe.  \
Thanks for an excellent 2 days Simon, great presentation style and the content seems to have addressed all the current needs. Only a 4 for the material because I have not yet referenced.\
I would have liked an easy guide. throughout the course would have been good to have on your own exercises as well as practice time. \
Excellent couple of days of training with a very knowledgeable trainer.\
\
Course manual could be updated to include some of the things we covered in the Advanced course, e.g. using Excel as well as the standard universe.\
The course was aimed at all levels of ability and put across at the right level with a good understanding of what was to be covered and achieved in the time given. I came a way with a better understanding of how to read reports.\
Very informative and useful course.  I now feel ready to tackle the system.\
there are still alot of unanswered questions as reports to use are not readily available  \
Very good instructor - very clear and precise.\
\
Good course. Helpful hints. Reassuring and encouraging.\
Good trainer\
\
\
Very useful but will need to have help from our department experts!\
It did what it said on the tin. Easy to understand. I probably could of done with a higher level of detail, but probably more suited to writer course.  \
\
\
\
Very basic but I think it's useful if you haven't used Bobi before. \
Very useful and helped to explain everything clearly\
Course should be split over a few sessions to allow writers to go away and practice in between . This would allow a slower speed so that more notes can be written by the individuals to help. The large booklet given is far too big to be of any use. I do not have hours to spend trawling through it to find what I need.  \
Easy to understand, good pace. The beginning was all things I knew but understand might be useful to other but afternoon session really good\
relaxed, Patient, Felt comfortable asking questions.\
There really should be another day to the course to give the best training for writers, but overall content and exercises were really useful and provides a good foundation to build on with continued use.  \
\
Went through the system at a good pace, not ridiculously slowly but also not too quickly. Knew the system well and had a good manner of teaching others.\
\
Very good delivery of the content - I know understand something that was confusing this morning! Thank you!\
\
Majority of the content was covering topics I already knew\
The technical set-up was a revelation in comparison to previous internal Business Objects training, which were plagued by technical issues and slow network connections.\
Thought that our trainer managed the varying levels of ability within our group very well, providing a comprehensive course of the features of the latest version of Business Objects.  He was happy to share his in-depth knowledge and advise on the best ways for different types of reporting.\
Very good course, the trainer was excellent and covered everything that I would have expected to be in the course\
\
I am new to Business Objects but Simon was very helpful and happy to spend time making sure I understood the course.\
\
Having not had any formal BO training for 12 years or so and self teaching R4 for the past year, I felt the course was very informative, well paced and very relaxed and interactive.  Looking forward to the advanced course!\
Really good - probably needs to be longer or we need a follow up session in a couple of weeks time to iron out where we are struggling. Really good delivery. \
Could easily bring in a second day for covering the advanced options and having more practice!\
\
the course was well structured aimed at the right level a subject that could be quite 'dry' was interesting and fun  well worth the time and focus\
Filled me with confidence to try the new version - had previously been very familiar with the old Business Objects - made it logical & clear despite the Waitrose complexity of set up of universe/date\
A really good course - learnt some things that I had gained from previous courses.  Come away with some pre built reports that I could use again.  \
Course was great and trainer led it well. Should avoid showing us/telling us things we cannot do, otherwise very engaging. \
Very good course, really informative, would recommend to my colleagues\
\
I will work with the pack and see if it answers all the questions I might have. But the content seemed straightforward, even if I did not have my laptop with me for the practical.\
Covered  how to read but would like to be able to write reports\
Having regularly used Business Objects as a reader, I was already aware of most of the information presented.  In the future, I would like to attend the Writer course to build a more in depth understanding of the system.\
\
I feel I now also need to go on the writer course\
\
\
Neat, tidy and very clear introduction to BOBI which was pitched at just the right level of detail\
Good starter course \
I was on the course for slightly different reasons that the rest of the people so actually knew everything already. I use BOBI a lot but for a lot of people I know this would be an excellent level of detail. Although there were a couple of things that weren't accurate to my knowledge. He said we weren't able to select multiple choices when adding to a 'in list' query and you can. Also not sure about his advice to save multiple versions of the same report in BOBI for reference, I was under the impression that this wasn't best practice?\
Helpful and useful course offering basic knowledge of the Bobbi system. \
Good for absolute beginners - however, if you have any use before its not needed. \
Great - would be very handy to have a bit of time on writing reports\
Probably a little simplified for what level I was at with BOBI, but not the fault of the trainer. \
\
Content was really well delivered but the course notes don't seem to cover a lot of what we went through.  If the notes could be made more comprehensive that would be really helpful. Thanks!\
Good basic look round system, will definately help \
Not too much confusing content\
I use BOBI every week but learnt new things on this course which will benefit me in the future.\
\
Very well delivered course. Nice and simple for first time users.\
Good intro to BOBI\
Not having used Business Objects previously it was a great introduction to the environment and the benefits.  Found the training interesting and felt that I gained sufficient knowledge to be able to provide quality feedback and support to other colleagues using the system. \
Well presented and informative course on Business Objects. As a complete beginner to using the software (although not the principles) Simon made the training fun and engaging and gave me confidence to be able to start using the software effectively in my day  to day work.\
Just an observation - many of the final assignments had mixed up names of characters, giving, for example, an anecdote about 'John' and then asking how one would reply to 'Tony'. It just felt a little less professional....\
There was sufficient material to get your teeth into along with the additional reading. \
Easy to understand and access\
As above \
This course was perfect for me as I am in full time employment , so was able to work on the assignments as and when I could find time . The course hugely increased my knowledge and skills , and was incredibly well priced .\
The Lecture notes that were sent were very enriching and i shared a lot of it with some friends and clients, it even opened up talks with people outside my circle of influence.\
I found the material very easy to understand and very comprehensive\
\
\
\
The course has been helpful and meaningful for me in terms of learning how to talk with my clients who expereieced losses. The contents of the course and materials are really good however I rated for four stars for the convenience of course materials notes. It seems to be updated more than once but some contents reminded overlapped and it was confusing. Beside, I wished if there were page numbers on the course material notes. \
\
Perfect\
Course content good, but quite awkward accessing via lengthy PDF documents. Provision of on-line course material with more interactivity would have been preferable.\
Concise and extensive study materials.\
\
A superb professional initiation and education. Probably the best course available.\
I would recommend to anyone who has contact with the bereaved. \
\
\
Very informative and clear instructions \
\
Lots of content and provided plenty of material to work with. \
I think I said this last time - the course text was basically good but, in my opinion, needs re-editing to improve consistency and remove repetitions and Increase clarity. \
Very easy to follow-only criticism is that proof reading is needed & a lot of web addresses are no longer available, so updating required.\
Some of the materials felt dated   \
For anyone thinking study with IOC please do not hesitate. I have already enrolled for two courses with one of them been Diploma in Clinical and Pastoral Counselling and I am really happy with the content.\
I found the pdf files difficult to follow and therefore ordered the paper files. I think the course would benefit from the materials being more interactive. For example, you watch a mentoring/coaching interaction video rather than read a transcript. This also helps to consider non-verbal communication and use of self commonly discussed in the modules. \
i live and work in an area where it is quite difficult to access to public libraries and good resources including books therefore i believe more of material including notes should be offered \
In depth with references for further reading\
\
Materials are complete, simple and to the point. One link was out of date but I notified my tutor about it.\
I thought it was a great cross section.  I think in this day and age there was too much on Christian focused pastoral care. I believe that pastoral care is important but it needs to show more diversity.\
\
The course content and materials are helpful. Some links are unable to access.\
\
The materials were excellent. My only slight reservation is that many of the examples used had a Christian context. Whilst I was completely comfortable with this, I am not sure everyone would be.\
The course content and materials were also excellent. Very clear and easy to follow.\
generally good but was wondering if it can be compacted a bit .\
As always the material was easy to follow. \
Very detailed, well arranged and the practice exercises are quite detailed and applicable to day to day scenarios\
As above, I wouldn\'82\'c4\'f4t change anything.\
Please see previous answer\
Detailed information on theories and models but again I would have liked more practical help in a clinical practice setting.\
The content has been good but the instructions regarding the practice portfolios, assignments and the TMA were not always clear, there are some unclear elements regarding how to write the TMA and record the verbatim counselling session within the supporting documents.   The TMA especially needed to be clearer as it's the first assignment that requires referencing, it's the longest piece of work and it's worth 100% of the course grade.  A student login with the course would be useful so that online material is accessible. Being based in Vietnam has meant some of the indicative readings have been hard to get hold of, which potentially limits the wider reading aspect of the TMA. \
\
Some of it was a bit dry - especially some of the longer units. We didnt have access to some of the course due to access limitations, but in general it was very good.\
\
\
Very educational and taught me an awful lot. \
The materials were excellent. I printed all my course material and so files without the detailed images on each page would have been better for me.\
minor quibble, but the page numbering in the printed lessons was occasionally out of sync. \
Course content was good\
Overall a useful course with a lot of information about coaching \
The course content was good and i enjoyed the topics covered.\
The course content was enriching and provided me with relevant skills to learn to be a counsellor. The assignments and the self-assessment exercises provided opportunities to think through counselling practices and to role play them with a colleague; that was instructive. \
\
The course content covered a good range of detail.  Enjoyed additional research for the assignments.\
\
All good, other than the comments in the first question. \
I enjoyed this course but will admit to finding some of it a little too on the 'church/pastoral' side for my liking.  I am an atheist so some of the course material didn't sit well with me but I managed to discern what was required of me by using those particular lesson models. \
I am very impressed with the Course design and content, fascinating , informative and wide ranging. It has helped me a great deal.\
I found the reference material well written and easy to understand. the content was well structured and sectioned enough to allow me to break down what was needed in the essay and the case study.\
The content itself was excellent - a broad range of theories, well explained in manageable chunks. Reading list and references provided were helpful for further learning. The exercises relating to each theory were helpful in consolidating the learning and applying theory to practice. Having lessons broken down in to separate documents was also useful.  One suggestion I'd make for refinement is guidance in relation to the TMA - between the student handbook and the assignment booklet, there are three separate guides on structuring the TA. I found this a bit overwhelming and confusing, not sure which to align with. Could a single, definitive guide be implemented? Being dyspraxic, getting to grips with all the supporting information was a bit overwhelming for me. Can I suggest a dyslexia-friendly formatted version of materials, or at least to have the ability to copy and paste from the PDFs supplied so neurodiverse learners can adapt the font, layout and style of the document to suit my learning needs?   All in all, though, I enjoyed the course, found it very useful and am now considering the PGCert. at UWS. This course gave me the opportunity to re-engage with academic learning, so my confidence in my ability to study has returned. I deeply appreciate being able to pay the course fees over a few months - this was an enormous help.   Many thanks. \
detailed, well laid out, easy to follow and understand with numerous helpful pointers to additional resources\
As above.\
Comment as above.  Enjoyed the use of limited numbers of texts - this meant I could read them and extend away from them at my own instigation.\
Excellent and relevant content and material, with lots of cross referencing. \
I have only completed Module 1. It was detailed and I enjoyed studying. As mentioned above it would be great to have more access to resources. That being said plenty of links were provided and the course was well structured.\
Course content was very detail with good links to external reading.\
The course was very interesting and the cases were very different from each other which kept me on my toes and focused. It was difficult at times to ask clients questions when there was no-one to actually answer them so you were having to imagine what the outcome would be to move forward with your next question. Ultimately I enjoyed the course and I will be able to use my new skills in my job role in Bereavement Services at the Crematorium.  \
I have really enjoyed the course. The materials are well put together and very clear. The content is displayed in a very attractive way which encourages learning.  \
Some of the links did not work. \
Very useful content and I feel that I\'82\'c4\'f4ve learned some good methods to introduce into my practice\
\
Generally good.  There were some typos and some of the student support information was out of date (e.g. student handbook refers to 16/17 year.  Essay Assignment instructions 'Aerial' instead of Arial  Same in Case Study Assignment Instructions and also last page 'Client' misspelled in Appendix A Same in Reflective Essay Assignment also Section 6 refers to U-tube it should be YouTube Year 17/18 Module Guide 1,2,3 Assessment strategy 'sopecific' instead of 'specific'\
As stated earlier although the information was interesting I feel a range of media would have been more beneficial. Such as videos or even sound clips.\
Great info. I struggled to get hold of essential reading materials though as don\'82\'c4\'f4t have the funds to invest. Would be good if the cost of the course included an online log on to the relevant texts.\
I learnt a great deal, and gained more confidence.\
\
Good.  Easy to understand.\
Excellent clear resources. \
All was very good and easy to understand and quick delivery and response from everybody \
This course gave me a wonderful chance to improve my empathy skills, by getting into the mind of my clients and learning from their perspectives, as well as my ability to structure my counselling sessions better overall. \
Some of the material seemed quite dated, but still relevant. Some of the videos also were dated.\
I have thoroughly enjoyed the course and it has also given me an insight as to how I can manage things in my own life. \
The notes were easy to follow, informative, and user-friendly. The assignments were very practical, relevant, and useful, and the bibliography was a great guide to further reading.\
The materials managed to be interesting, thought provoking, detailed, and comprehensive. I liked the combination of A/V and written.\
\
Very professional and through course materials. Well presented\
\
The course is well-constructed and the tutor is helpful. I began the course with limited prior knowledge of coaching and have now learnt lots about it from completing the reading, exercises and assignment.  It\'82\'c4\'f4s a good introduction to coaching because it covers theory, practice and reflecting on your learning. I feel encouraged to continue studying coaching and the practical assignment has increased my confidence. The variety of case studies and exercises are interesting and thought-provoking.\
The course content is excellent, very knowledgeable together with the core reading and recommended reading\
The materials are good and the practice activities made me think a lot and explore myself more.\
All the manuals are very well organized. As you progress with the course you realize that all is thought  to make sense and you are gaining knowledge and skills adding to the one you already have.   All the Practice Exercises, Self Development Exercises, Activities and Assignments are invaluable to put theory in practice and get confident in using the skills in different scenarios and diagnosis. \
I wish it was broken down more . It all felt too long somehow. \
A fascinating subject, with simple to understand concepts and easily applied to real life situations.\
Excellent overall of the course\
enjoyed the whole course\
Clear and concise\
\
I found the course encouraging, challenging and relevant to my situation. It was laid out well and easy to read. It also included plenty of other suggested reading should I want to follow anything up.\
The course was well elaborated and clear to understand.\
\
Course provided exact information I wanted to learn and was fit for the purpose I wanted. It was invaluable to study the first module - Counselling to learn the models and purpose of counselling which I was then able to relate to the bereavement part. The course challenged my understanding and the way I would respond. I have learnt to read between lines, to consider what peopel are not physically saying, not just to rely on the physical word spoken.\
Over all it is all worth it, i am so lucky and blessed to get such opportunity. Being equipped is aomething that will never taken away from you by anyone. \
This was a skills based course and it really helped in m volunteer work.\
This came just at the right time in my career and has helped develop my future\
The recommended extra reading was incredibly useful ,even more practical than the course notes themselves .The course content was set up great though and the frequent evaluative questions and mini-courseworks were good for feedback and tracking progress and understanding  \
The whole content was very clear and understandable,it was also very easy to read and understand.\
Having done a certificate in counselling before, I found the content and materials of the Institute of Counselling very rich.\
\
Some of the course content could do with an update. The materials used for some modules are not as current as they could be. Many of the assignments specify that our references need to be focused on those published within the past 10 years, but the course notes almost don't meet that requirement themselves.\
Course content was okay but  a bit tired and dated  \
I would like to point out some of the links are not available anymore through course. The course content was very well presented and I could follow it most of the time. \
Well presented but pdf lockdown made copy and pasting of templates into assignment reports tricky \
Some web links don\'82\'c4\'f4t work and examples a little outdated/ sexist\
I find case studies particularly useful, and the more of those that can be provided the better.\
\
More interactive assignments or perhaps more IT presented information would be an added benefit to the course texts and website.\
Provided solid foundation for further study and development\
Excellent\
This question has been answered in tbe previous one.\
\
Very very useful. The adiobooks literally helped me to understand the concepts. \
Completed with the additional reading it gives a profound understanding \
I think the course was laid out when and helped to create a gradual development of understanding.   It  has really helped me to live in the present moment. Also there almost a contemporary missional dimension . I have been able to reach to people with needs.\
I have thoroughly enjoyed studying with the Institute of Counselling and will continue with further courses in the future. I was originally concerned about distance learning but with the tutor support and contact available from the the institutes admin team has alleviated any concerns that I had. The study plans and guidelines are really helpful to keep you on track and overall, I am very happy. \
\
Good format \
\
As above.\
Easy to read and follow. Very informative and made sense. It was laid out in a way that helped individuals development. The course content was very interesting and made you think about every day contacts. Especially the section on supervision.\
Basic yet informative.\
Very well presented and readable. I also thought it repeated itself enough to get in to my head.\
All was professionally arranged and understandable. \
The course documents don't appear to have been updated for 3 years and the referencing style does not match between course and support documents. Indexing would help so that it is possible to go to a specific place when needed. The clip art can detract from the text but is probably a personal preference.\
Clear guidance and resource materials readily available\
I did have difficulty understanding the notes at the start, as I was not familiar with the style. \
\
\
See above \
 Excellent services within debates  and with knowledge  all  ways available when you ring the   tutor \
Everything was well structured and easy to follow.\
The material and the content were so clear.\
None.\
Course content and material is rich with pictures, case studies and examples and so many materials to reference\
\
Course learning materials are very comprehensive and designed in a way to build up knowledge as you progress through the course\
Both content and material are ideal for my needs and direct extra reading which I enjoy.\
The content was good and also suggested resources for wider reading and development.\
A really great course that I have recommended to colleagues and friends.\
I split the course material into sections so that they were easier to read and digest. in the smaller sections this was easier for me to deal with which I really liked\
very comprehensive. Especially the reading list.\
It was really interesting, especially about the psychology of people or the process of mentoring.  Some lessons were more exciting, when they were about that topic. Others more theoretical were a bit more hermetic. I liked the case studies and when we had to think and invent some situations and imagine what they would be like.\
The content and materials are excellent. Well thought out and well designed and produced. The course handbooks are a little confusing with regard to assignment submission and processes. \
Overall good and all the information needed was included with in resources\
\
It was informative but some modules were lengthy \
Excellent\
\
I would have liked to have seen more links included to bereavement material online e.g YouTube clips,training videos etc as in the introduction to counselling. I came across The Counselling Channel which was very insightful.The notes of the course however were good apart from some statements which were a bit vague.\
Great course materials although the link to the referencing aid did not work and I had to ask Marie for some assistance! Overall topics were clear and interesting and presented well. \
Very thorough with plenty of recommendations for relevant further reading. \
Easy to understand material and what was required for each assignment.\
The course book was a bit too in depth I felt for the requirements of the course, the online material was very used \
I had some prior knowledge and experience of CBT but these materials took me that much further in my learning. The exercises were fantastic and really helped to consolidate the learning. They encouraged me to think through and learn what was being taught. There was a lot of information packed into each lesson.\
\
Material and bibliography very relevant and interesting.   Lots to take in but is more enough time to take it easy and absorb all the important points \
I really liked the introduction to the different counselling approaches very much, and this is one of the reasons why I chose the course in the first place.  The second section was a little surprising to me in that it seemed to get into quite advanced skills very quickly although it is a basic course. Perhaps it is just my too-literal mindset but it bothered me a little that it said somewhere in the course text that advanced empathy is not for the first appointment for the client and yet the advanced empathy assignment situation was with a new client. \
Clear and easy to follow and written in a concise way that invites further study. The notes are also written in an easy to read style\
Excellent course \
I am now on my third course with the institute and am already anticipating more.\
The structure and design of the course content and material was clear and well laid out in the presentation which facilitated a deep understanding of CBT. The course material from the cert to the dip, was clearly linked and build upon making the wealth of information less daunting.\
Perhaps some video material would help. But the theoretical aspects were very adequate. The assessment questions relevant and dynamic. \
Content was information, but links to audio files or other videos should be embedded directly into the relevant page.\
Thank you! This was a great course, well suited to my needs. \
Excellent material. Very carefully selected and the assignments were very cleverly designed, covering a wide range of different client cases.\
It was an excellent course that covered a great deal of relevant and up to date information and knowledge.\
The downloadable resources were fine; as mentioned above, the YouTube clips were a little dated and sometimes a little tricky to find.\
The material was very clear, and there were plenty of examples to illustrate the principles and use of the tools. The portfolio questions and assignments were excellent in provoking deep thought and drawing out learning.\
\
The course was enriching in that it provided helpful background to coaching,  what it is about and the theory behind the different possible practical approaches to it.  It has provided a toolkit for the coaching I am currently involved in.   It also gave me a lot of food for thought on a personal level - some of the Practice Activities encouraged a deep level of personal reflection that was of value.\
\
Well presented workbooks.\
\
\
See comment one above\
As above\
\
Easy written and interesting\
The materials will continue to be relevant if after the course and dur8ng practical work.\
Well structured content.\
\
Excellent.  Lots of resources made available to do further reading. Each lesson was explained in a use friendly language which was respectful and empathetic\
Some internet sites not active or accessible.\
Good course and content.\
Very clear and plain English easily followed, diagrams very helpful. I liked the way it was easy to look back and find subject material. There was full content in this course and plenty of studying to be done, personally it suited my life style at present being able to do it at my own pace rather having to wait on the rest of a class setting.\
Easy to follow with regards to linking lessons to assignments. Excellent suggested reading materials. \
\
Once you start the course you begin the discover the basics of life and human behaviour and that gives you more urge to keep studying and reading \
\
The course content was what I expected it would be.\
\
The course content and materials were of high quality.  Many relevant reverences were also provide to deepen student understanding of the topics.\
Comprehensive given examples relevant and helpful.  Loads of extra reading references. \
Very good communication, great course materials and very helpful tutor\
I enjoyed the course and have already recommended it to my Associate\
\
The course content and materials have been excellent. Easy to understand reading and instruction benefits all levels of learner. \
Extremely well written with enough data to allow you to educate and understand\
As per above, more variety in medium might be desirable.\
Some of the examples seem a little out of date\
Contents - largely very good; however, references & links partly outdated.\
Course materials were very good and of a high standard \
\
Great course\
The course was thorough in theory content but in no way overwhelming\
Clear and practical. I would only say that some of the links don't work.\
The course materials were good, it's a massive subject but all the main theories were covered and I thought using case studies helped.  I\
Again quality material which was relevant and up to date. The assignments were challenging and encouraged a learning experience. \
\
The course had the right handouts and information and the case studies very genuine. \
\
links up to date incorrect information - f.e. Case Study 9 referring to attack in New York, but with date 9th September - correct is 11th September the recommended literature is pretty old, I believe that there are better nowadays  no references for webpage or articles for current role models in coaching area \
\
I really enjoyed undertaking the course and it certainly provided a great opportunity to reflect and develop my practice.   The only thing I would say, which is in respect to my preferred way of learning, is that I would have liked the opportunity to have attended a workshop or been able to take part in online discussions on some of the areas, as I find discussion helps me with processing information.  Whereas my learning was done exclusively by myself. \
Very good and easy to understand \
great information and links to more to read watch etc. \
nice content; loved the focus on empathy  \
nice content; loved the focus on empathy  \
\
Given the level of the course, a good overview of the topics covered. Case studies mirrored real life situations.  Good practice for the real world.\
1. Chapter contents to the point as summarised at the beginning with intended goals from each topic  2. Case studies and \'82\'c4\'f2To-Do\'82\'c4\'f4 segments provided exercise and practice  3. Material was not only educational but also provided reflection and personal development 4. Well illustrated and categorised. 5. Easy to use and cross reference between lessons 1-2 to 9-10  6. Interesting content with good emphasis in an appropriate manner.\
\
Informative, clearly written with logical progression \
See comment above.\
The material was understandable and helpfull.The bibliography was helpfull and the information given was enough.\
Some of the reference links didn't work and one reference was to the wrong source.\
Wealth of information and easy to follow.\
A lot more than I expected, all of which were a fantastic introduction to different topics. I choose to print the course work which has now made a comprehensive reference to areas involved in counselling.\
I really enjoyed the course and found it very informative, i learnt alot\
I found the layout was excellent and re-capped and confirmed my understanding, the examples with Therapist and Client discussion especially useful and the inclusion of specific forms.\
The material was fine, but it was totally difference to the CBT course i did a year ago. So it was the TMA which i found some of the guidelines not very clear.\
Very detailed;  \'82\'c4\'faIt\'82\'c4\'f4s wholesome like a balanced meal\'82\'c4\'f9\
the course materials and content were excellent as they contained a lot of useful information, very informative.  The course has a linear approach which again made learning easy.\
Like i said above very clear and concise information for a correspondence course.\
\
\
The course materials were excellent and will be a valuable resource in the future as well as for the programme \
\
Very interesting and detailed.\
Yes, all very good. I would have liked a few examples of case studies where CBT was actually being applied - like an interview with the words of the person being counselled and the counsellor. \
I was pleased to find an online course that I could complete as a distance learner. The course helped me to consider coaching from different angles as well as to deepen my understanding of my own coaching style.  Course contents were easy to follow but I found the suggested reading and websites outdated. Many of the given weblinks do not work. The core text has a newer edition than the one suggested. Even course notes are dated as 2010 or 2012 and could do with a refresh - small things like updating submission instructions to allow for email, for example, would help make the notes more relevant.   \
\
\
Lesson content was interesting and relevant, and the activities and assignments were generally complementary. \
I find it very useful and very informative \
\
Very informative,interesting and challenging \
I was very surprised and happy by the volume of course material that was sent through when I first registered.  Really helpful, informative and great for advice with further reading and websites.\
overall good I have done a lot of my own resource searching as well\
PDF\'82\'c4\'f4s were problematic in places, and some of the case studies were somewhat esoteric, but the principles and theories were well explained. The documentation around the TMA was confusing in places and could have easily been misinterpreted (e.g. specifying models as examples could have been taken as instructions instead).\
\
\
Very informative course.\
\
\
A fantastic course. It has provided me with many counselling tools that I can utilise in my work with my specific client base. Living and working abroad was not an issue and the distance learning aspect of the course suited me perfectly.\
\
Very relevant for times as this\
The materials were well put together and the self exercises were useful. I would have liked to some sample answers for the assignments and questions in order to understand the expected structure a little better. I was sometimes uncertain if I was approaching the exercise in the right way. Fortunately, my tutor was able to guide me here.\
Very Thorough but also allowed for further research.\
Extremely enjoyable, and life changing in fact.\
Course materials were of good standard with more internet links and reference materials. As course material contained examples, each scenario was easily understood. \
\
\
The course material was comprehensive yet not overwhelming.\
\
Well structured and explained. Clear referencing and suggested reading.\
I thought at times the questions asked in assessment weren't worded as clearly as I would have liked to provide the answer looked for. At times when reading over material I felt I had missed information I was being asked for that wasn't there and had to look at material in other books and internet.\
Very limited and at times difficult to understand language. Infact i quite battled going through pieces of text and learning matetial.\
the materials are helpful\
\
I found that the overall goal of the course was excellent. The  approach of developing and self-test and activity was effective and worthwhile.  The basic structure of the course is great. \
the material is not enough to work with i suggest if more resources and reading material can be provided it will be helpful  as in some parts of the world it is not easy and faster you receive if you order online. also for second language speakers i suggest the material should be supporting according to their requirements.\
Good\
Easy to follow\
It has made me more self aware. Interested to learn more. Would perhaps prefer a different way of learning maybe not on line.\
The course covered everything I expected. So all good from my point of view.\
Apart from the points mentioned above, the course material was good.\
In addition to what has been mentioned above, the course provides a broad understanding of prevailing counselling trends and how they have evolved over time, thereby acting as a point of reference for not just current problems, but issues that may have been formed a few decades ago\
Really easy to work through, good links and suggestions for further reading and research. \
All course materials were easy to follow and flowed well.\
This was truly an amazing course for me which I will be able to use in my day to day interactions with clients.\
\
See above. \
Not as enjoyable - found the course material hard to digest in some parts. \
I am happy with the course contents, and what I love to learn more about was to apply the theory to practical work.  \
\
Clear and easy to follow.  It made online learning fun whilst enabling you to get the qualification you need.\
Very good content and course materials. \
It was excellent but it would be great to see a few counselling examples although I did get this in my feedback \
Very well presented, with lots of additional support material. Easy to follow.\
\
The course was great but some links did not work etc. so it may need a re-fresh at some point.\
All the material was relavent to the course.  The examples were good.\
Only prob is, some of the advice seems to conflict itself as to what was expected. Confusing-but I got there!\
\
Overall the course enlightened me on the concept of coaching/ mentoring and having to write the dissertation was helpful as I was able to use theories concept/ coaching principles/ Glows technique etc. All this was expressed by working with a client  during session. \
\
plenty to read and good advice on extra references and resources\
Interesting and relevant \
Excellent course materials\
\
Brilliant.  I have limited access to a Library, but found all course material very useful.\
Easy accessible and easy to follow.Comprehensive material \
Covered a wide range of topics relevant to mentoring. I found the practical exercises a useful way of recapping on the learning. \
\
Materials were very comprehensive and easy to understand\
The course content and materials were very good overall. However, I would like to make a few comments: 1.Study materials: The pdf files that materials come in are protected, which means that nothing can be either copied for printing or highlighted for studying electronically. This meant I had to print out all materials to make highlight and notes. Further, I like to copy and paste assignment tasks for tutor's and my own reference in the Portfolio, however, I found I had to take screenshots of that instead or type it all up myself. To conclude, the protected document mode was highly frustrating to me. 2.Study materials: The study materials come in parts, rather than in one large document. This means that when you want to look up something specific and you cannot remember where you read it, you need to search in a number of different documents, instead of one. This, combined with inability to highlight important concepts or attach notes (see point 1 above about protected document mode), makes it doubly difficult and frustrating. 3.TMA: I felt that TMA guidelines could have been more specific and mapped out on to the marking criteria more clearly. This generated some anxiety in me as I was worried I may not have covered everything, and that what I covered may not score many points as per marking criteria. 4.TMA: Finally, it would be helpful to have word count guidance for each section of TMA (at the moment, only the overall and the word count for the transcript part is provided).\
Excellent. I feel more confident as a result of this course.\
As previously mentioned I feel it was well designed, easy to follow and to relate to with client work. I found one part a little confusing which explained the downward arrow technique and the difference between this and the DRDT did not seem clear. However this was cleared up by my tutor.  \
Excited about using some new skills in my everyday work\
I think we spent too much time in basic features. Not fault of the trainer, but maybe the assessment as not everyone had sufficient knowledge for an advance course\
a bit chaotic type of teaching, too small venue\
Course was good, possibly the content was a little too advanced for what I need, but it helped with the main questions I had.\
\
\
Paul was very good and he took time to go through slowly with me as I am slow learner.\
\
Really informative learnt lots of new interesting features on excel\
\
\
It was really beneficial for us to now go back and think how we can use it in our day to day. \
\
good overall, it would be nice to have a  longer and more in-depth training sessions\
\
\
\
\
This is my second training session with Paul, overall training session was very good to have a better understanding for pivot and what if analysis. Thank you very much Paul. \
I could not keep up when it came to the macros but would rather remember everything up until that point and then do the course again for the macros further down the line.\
\
Paul made the session fun with activities to complete.\
learned new things, that will use in my day to day job\
\
\
\
\
The quick recap and overview is exactly what I needed. Explanation for each part was really simple to understand along with the examples without sounding patronising which I loved most. Some tools I use regularly but others I don't but have always wanted to incorporate into my work / report analysis so it's really helpful for my role!\
Great training.\
\
Great training session, really enjoyed it and was very clear and concise :)\
\
\
Presenting the different points/items/formula that we were going to understand, maybe with a printed checklist, so it would help give strucutre and keep a trace of it ? \
\
Great content, made relevant to the needs of the individuals. All completed clearly and individuals catered for. \
Very interactive and skillful teacher, a lot of tips and tricks!\
\
\
my trainer Paul taught me all the key features that i needed to know in order to format my pivot tables later on in life. Paul explained and answered all my questions clearly and well detailed. when i struggled to understand something Paul helped me to get my head around the idea of the tricky formulas to handle.   In conclusion, Paul definitely helped me improve my skills and knowledge around Microsoft excel and i now feel confident to help others who are stuck on the matter.\
TRAINER HAD EXCELLENT UNDERSTANDING AND MADE IT INTERESTING \
teacher helped us a lot with formatting, v lookups, pivots etc. would recommend :)\
Was great, full of banter and day was a good laugh.  learnt a lot too.\
Very useful and informative.\
Thanks for your time\
\
\
\
\
\
\
In future, it would be helpful to use data from our own programmes so that we can test how useful some of the tools could be.  \
Great and engaging training\
Paul was a great trainer. He took the time to explain and deliver content that is most relevant to our work and will save us a lot of time in how we use Excel. Would definitely recommend! \
I recommend this course to anyone who uses excel! It was great to have the flexibility to focus on specific areas which were useful to this group, especially around Pivot tables. \
\
It would be good to get a handout of all the cheats and shortcuts that we learnt. \
Paul was great and had everyone engaged. One trainee had described the morning session as 'transformational' over lunch. \
\
An enjoyable course, with a lot of content and information to take away an use in my everyday role.\
Very knowledgeable and supportive when not able to follow instructions.  Good course but maybe some information on what we have learnt. \
\
Really useful & accessible.\
Very good.\
Good examples to implement learning. Pitched at appropriate level for what I was expecting with a bit of flexibility dependent on attendees. Personally, despite plenty of break opportunity, I found it hard to absorb so much helpful information, I think personally I would have benefited from the session being split into shorter sessions.\
\
Great layout and tutor was really clear\
The trainer was very good, helpful and approachable. Another trainer may not have held my attention!\
\
Thank you Paul for being so patient with me as through out the Excel training. Such a great patient Trainer.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Really helpful session \
Really good teaching and being able to do tasks and activities \
\
\
there is a lot of useful information given, really helpful tips. Paul very personable and patient. Thank you.\
Interesting course. Learnt a lot more about Visio, than what i had learnt previously.\
Great course. Would be even better if some of the examples cpuld be contextualised eg to NHS but I realise that's a tall order for every course\
Pace was a bit slow at times, but that was caused by the other participants rather than the trainer, and he did his best to provide the more up to speed participants with additional challenge.\
great session\
\
Paul was really helpful and patient with us!\
Loved it very informative and well timed\
Very informative. Course instructor very helpful, patient and hands on for us beginners.   Can be slightly overwhelming but I think that's because I don't need to use these in my everyday work. \
Very informative and helpful. Trainer was very attentive to everyone's needs and made sure everyone kept.up. \
\
Paul made it interesting and explained everything well\
\
\
more exercises and resources\
\
very interesting and taught me all the key points as much as i need to know them.  Paul especially made this experience special for me as he portrayed all the necessary information thoroughly and clearly\
\
Very well run course.\
\
I remember Excel now\
Fantastic \
Thank you!\
\
Very useful, wish we could have covered more/spent time tailoring to our own work but hopefully can in future training. Good to use so many different example documents. Clear teaching and engaging!\
Would highly recommend Paul especially for training those who don't like using Excel as it made it fun and informative. Everyone, even experienced users, learned something new and useful during the day. \
Created good atmosphere and comfortable space for learning/asking questions when struggling to understand\
The course gave me new techniques and also formalised some skills I previously had so was very helpful to me.\
enjoyable, informative, well paced.\
I think the only reason why I gave a 4 and not a 5 for the course content and materials, as well as the new skills and knowledge is because this is all super new for me. So, I'm not sure how much I can retain to then practice in my day to day experience. However, after taking the course I am brainstorming ideas for more Excel integration so that I don't lose this knowledge or ability to practice the Excel tools. \
I was pleased that the trainer slowed down his rate of speech and explanations after asking. It would have been even better if he had paused a bit more to allow us to simultaneously take notes, follow along, and watch what was happening on the screen. It was slightly fast for me, but that might have also been because I am starting at a point that is behind the others. \
\
Paul introduced some simple and efficient tools to make Excel much more understandable and accessible. He went through the content and exercises at a good pace and the training will really make a huge difference in aiding my work. Thank you!\
High level of expertise- and well explained tutorials. \
\
\
Would be worth bringing actual Excel problems to course to be able to put it into practice\
Learnt a lot that I did not know before and new things to make my job easier and gained a better understanding of Excel.  Will need longer to practice and understand in more detail.  \
Good but felt instructor was not very good at listening and tended to talk over us when we wanted to ask questions and was quite dismissive of us when we didn't understand.\
\
\
Very good session and the trainer made sure I was keeping up throughout\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Many thanks Shelley for teaching us all new skills and handy shortcuts which I will put into practice almost immediately! \
\
The course provided a really good introduction to areas of Excel that I wanted training in. A longer session over a couple of days with more examples and opportunities to practice each topic woul have been more beneficial though.\
Paul is brilliant, I really enjoyed and looking forward to have the advance training :)\
The course was really good and constructive really helpful\
great course, will use skills shown. \
\
Paul is an excellent and patient trainer who manages the class well, even though we're at different levels.\
i responded more to the content in this part of the course having done the starter course, good to do one after another \
Fantastic course and great teacher\
Paul is friendly and helps you to understand the hows and whys of excel\
\
\
Very good \
\
\
The Course material and the way it was delivered has been amazing, its a whole new world of excel that I have been opened up to\
\
Thank you \
\
\
I really enjoyed the lesson and I feel more comfortable now to use Vlookup on excel. \
\
Very helpful and useful\
\
I don't like numbers but I enjoyed this day course, never having had any Excel training and not having used it very much. \
\
I now feel confident to use all of Excel's functions!\
n/a\
\
\
\
\
\
Learned things that I really needed to like pivot tables and if statements as well as having a good overview of things I already knew. Paul also showed plenty of shortcuts that will come in handy in terms of creating things quicker and more accurately.\
\
\
\
Learnt more about what you can do with pivotables, vlookups\
\
\
\
Great course for those who aren't familiar with the program or don't often use it. Paul explained everything clearly and simply, taking time to go through each step. \
\
Well structured course, informative and great tutor.\
Paul is friendly and makes the course interactive and not boring\
\
\
Found Paul very patient, helpful and very very knowledgeable.  regardless of how simple my spreadsheet skills were, Paul was very accommodating and engaging. very informative and easy to pick up.\
\
Very good\
\
its good for item you will be using but practice will be needed on all areas.\
Excellent training course as always, very detailed\
\
\
may require more time\
\
Very helpful for refreshing my excel intermediate skills.\
\
\
\
\
I feel that the course is useful for those that are new to or inexperienced in softology\
\
\
\
Very well put together course\
\
\
\
Paul made the course interesting and made sure each of the candidates understood fully in all areas and any queries were addressed.  It was clear and definitely a worthwhile course and has made me feel far more confident in using Excel.\
\
\
\
\
Apart from my laptop still not syncing with one note it was a very worthwhile course and have already recommended to Paul Tucker my line manager to  get the team on it.\
Would have been good to be able to practice by ourselves rather than just seeing everything happening on screen (but I assume this requires more time)\
The only issue was that some of our computers didn't have the same features as hers and Onedrive wasn't working on mine at all so it would have been good to test those before going to ensure I could follow along. \
Basic knowledge - good for an introduction.\
It provided an overall understanding of OneDrive, SharePoint and OneNote but it lacks practice for attendees. The format was very conversational after the 30min of slides, jumping from one topic to another, and it would have helped us all more to follow a more structured path with step by step exercises. I feel like I have a better understanding of all three apps but in terms of usage, I still don't feel confident. \
More practice (exercises) during the course will improve the learning process. \
\
Great info, very clear presentation. Loved to practice at the same time and to have real examples with the screen share. too many slides in my option, we could focus only on real life examples with cases for all departments:  - all> how to create a project file for the team - marketing > instead of wetransfer or dropbox share assets on this - sales > confidential files and how to save a customer presentation PDF on ONeDrive and access it without internet on an iPad  Loved the piece on OneDrive, but to be honest I got lost for the other tools: not sure how KeyNote / Teams / SharePoint are relevant in my sales activity.  Maybe explain the differences with Dropbox ? \
I found the course enlighting, however, had previous knowledge of excel, therefore, a higher level course would be more beneficial. However, the instructor was very good.\
I found the course enlighting, however, had previous knowledge of excel, therefore, a higher level course would be more beneficial. However, the instructor was very good.\
Really enjoyed the course, I have learned a lot from it and would defiantly use everything I have learnt today in my everyday use on excel. Paul was a great teacher too! \
\
Good course for grasping the basics of excel\
\
\
\
\
\
It could be better to have much more time to see examples.\
Very informative without being over complicated. The trainer was very clear and I am going away with more confidence in using this  on a daily basis\
Well explained and something to follow up on , rather than forget what has just been learnt.\
Mixed ability group so didn't cover as much as expected\
Didn't spend the same amount of time on all subjects so we got more in depth training on one and not on the other \
\
\
Very good and helpful\
\
The course was very easy to understand \
\
The trainer was exceptionally helpful and patient\
i loved it.\
Learned so much in so little time\
\
Really interesting course.\
Really well presented, useful tips.\
\
Trainer was very thorough and covered all topics in good detail. He was also very helpful when anyone was stuck on a particular matter.\
\
\
\
\
really good trainer professional only thing i would i suggest would be pace for different users some may be faster and slower\
My personal objectives were met and I feel more confident in going forward with Excel. \
\
Very helpful. Thank you\
it was very useful and interesting what we learn about softology. This particular software gives you the ability to retrieve documents with numerous options.\
I had little to no knowledge and have gone away enlightened\
\
\
useful\
\
\
Still require specific departmental preferences/filing methods\
\
\
\
\
\
My knowledge of word was very limited and even though I do not use Word on a regular basis I feel that I learnt enough to confidently used Word when I need to.  \
Thank you Pat!\
\
\
\
pOR PROBLEMAS DE iNTERNET NO HE PODIDO SEGUIR BIEN LA PRESENTACION CORRECTAMENTE, ME GUSTARIA REPETIR LA FORMACION SI PUDIERA SER.- GRACIAS\'ac\'b0\'ac\'b0\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very short in time, 1 hour is not enought \
\
\
\
\
\
Short time to show and practice\
MORE TIME TO DO EXAMPLES\
\
\
-\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
It would have been beneficial to have a written training paper to work with so that could refer back to it to refresh understanding and memory\
this is the second course i have been on with Pat and he is a great Instructor.  However, it would be good to receive handouts on the course about things we learnt.\
\
\
\
I now know more that what I did before and feel comfortable enough to use Excel in a basic way in the future and with more practice, I believe I will get better and better. \
Very useful training!\
\
Paul was very patient and funny while teaching Excel functions. The materials were interesting and the exercises- were useful. \
\
Thanks for a good day! Just need to practice my new skills now\
\
\
Great understanding of Excel and parts I am now able to use better. \
\
\
\
great course, i would highly recommend.  \
\
\
Pat is coming back in to do a Power Point training session.\
\
It was a great course - clear, thorough and as a result feel much more confident in Excel. \
Learnt everything I wanted to. Feel like I have a great understanding and looking forward to seeing Pat again for the powerpoint course.\
Really interesting, Paul was very knowledgeable, helpful and answered all my questions. \
Paul is a delight! He's very entertaining and knowlegable.   One thing that would make the class easier to understand would be if we used our live data however I can appreciate this is difficult/not possible if there are different team members on the training.  Overall, I found it very helpful.\
I've attended a couple of these classes and have found them very informative. It has been a good recap as I had forgotten tasks.  \
This was a very worthwhile course to take and I learned a lot about Excel that I either didn't know or needed brushing up on. I think this course will help me with my job objectives and make day-to-day spreadsheet work easier. \
\
Paul was friendly and managed the class well and was very good at helping each individual participant. It was very easy to see what to do once he had explained. \
With a bit more practice of what I have learnt today, I feel I will be able to get the hang of using excel. \
Course highly useful, gained a lot of knowledge.\
\
Paul was very nice, and very help and patient with myself and my other members of the team. He took the time out to help and explain in detail to each of us regarding any issues we did not understand or required some more time on.  I learnt a lot about Excel, and will be looking forward to booking myself in into the next course with Paul and his company - HIGHLY RECOMENDED!!!\
\
It was really basic knowledge about one drive and for me not many new things  Due to the fact that I do already work a lot with one drive it was more a recap of all the knowledge I already had\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Softology needs to be made simpler and i think the training session would be more helpful in smaller groups.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
very helpful. I Need more ;)\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Thanks for doing the seminar Shelley - appreciated it very much and got a few new distinctions and things to try out next time.  Despite the tech letting you down massively you carried on powerfully through that glitch. A true pro!  Having seen your excel presentation earlier this just didn't seem to have the same punch or energy about it. Knowing your back stresses at the moment I understand why!  I realise that it is probably standard fare for PowerPoint training to leap in fairly quickly to the technical steps but I felt that there wasn't much space given to the reason why most powerpoints are pretty useless. The WHY do the talk, what is the intention, the journey for the audience member(s) and a constant focus on delivering results for them - you covered the writing of the talk mainly as a technical activity that allowed you to create an outline for every slide. If it was '10 tips on Powerpoint' more tips like that could be strong enough, but 'Putting the Point in Powerpoint' teased me with a much bolder, strategic approach. This teased at why to use it and how to construct and shape the talk with powerpoint leveraged only when needed for best effect rather than as a prop...  Nick is your counter in the network - he argues forcefully against PowerPoint so you could probably have got away with being a lot bolder about when, where and WHY it can be so powerful.  And in case you've not noticed I AM playing Devil's Advocate a bit as no doubt you'll get loads of fantastic feedback from the others!!!  Gulp, you have permission to go for it next month!!!\
Clearly knows her stuff and is enthusiastic to share her knowledge.\
A lot of ground covered in a short space of time but the trainer was always happy to review and re - tell the training.\
\
The course went at a good speed and ensured that everyone could keep up. It covered everything expected and gave lots of useful tips along the way. It had a good mix of listening and interaction activities.\
excellent precise\
He made sure that no one was left behind and assisted when needed\
Now has new ways to accomplish tasks\
Overall paul is a good trainer, once he explained somthing he came around and checked everyones attempt at an excercise. He also asked if there was anything key that we wanted to know which showed he was slightly flexible in what we could learn to make sure it was beneficial\
VERY CLEAR AND EASY TO UNDERSTAND\
Informative helpful and assisting.\
\
Enjoyed the session\
\
\
Really good course. Enjoyed my first understandings of the Softology system   \
Informative and very useful.\
Better understanding of the software and easy enough to find documents.\
\
\
Thanks for a good training, Shelley \
The meeting meets its objectives, very clear.\
Thanks to send presentation\
I would have liked to be able to follow on my computer at the same time. As most of the content was new for me, not necessarily easy to follow at the same pace.\
\
\
maybe 2 hours is too long\
Fantastic trainer and training \
\
\
Great training by Shelley in person & by Skype. Clear content in presentation & plenty of time given to ask questions. \
Great training session to get a better understanding of the possibilities with OneDrive!\
Thank you Shelly, as always it was a pleasure\
\
\
Thanks Shelley \
\
On the whole the course was good and delivered well.  A few of us are on different levels of understanding of Excel, in hindsight it would probably have been better to divide the group but unfortunately that would not have fitted in with our INSET training day.  \
I had quite a good knowledge of Excel in the first instance so a lot of the items covered I already knew.  However, i did learn a few new shortcuts and discovered pivot tables\
I believe the course covered the requirements set but I already knew most of the content covered. Although it was interesting to find out ways of using the keyboard rather than the mouse, for example, it's not something that's going to make a big difference to my work. There were a few things new to me that I will be using in future. Overall, I thought the trainer was good but there were too many of us with too much difference in our use and understanding of Excel.\
\
\
It would have been good to have some pointers on how to use excel on macs as the majority of the room were working off macs which slowed down the session and meant mac users weren't able to learn as many shortcuts like the 2 PC users in the session. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
The course provided all participants with methods and skills to use their existing programmes more time effectively and to use methods going forward where the new skills would result in significant time savings and consequently more efficient working.  We have used Shelly before and will continue to do so.\
Shelly is a very good and patient trainer. Took time to help me keep up.\
Covered a huge amount of information but at just the right pace. I have lots of new tools that I can use in my work.\
\
I now realise how powerful Excel is and how much there is to learn.  I've had a good induction to this today and look forward to putting this learning into use.\
A good refresher and introduction to the enhanced functionality of later Excel packages. Some opportunities to apply the learning to real work situations and to discuss issues with team mates.\
Shelly was very good once again. Clear instructions and covered all aspects of the content of the bespoke training.  I feel I now have that additional understanding of some of the excel functions that I was not so competent with.  \
\
Went at a good pace to suit everyone in the session. Covered more in-depth matters as well as recapping on older things people might not have known. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very constructive and assisting in our goals\
course made more sense 2nd time around! after using ECS/Qube for 111 months the course content made more sense.\
\
\
\
\
The course was designed for beginners and it achieved it's goal well. It covered the basics and helped individuals new to VBA get a good start into extending their Excel applications and spreadsheets.\
Paul was very helpful and a good trainer providing the knowledge and materials required to learn the basics in Macros and VBA.\
I have found the course to be really useful, particularly around the creation of powerpoint as i will be using in the near future. Overall it has been a very productive afternoon.\
Very helpful 1-2-1 tutoring- all done at the right pace!\
Extremely knowledgeable, professional, friendly and approachable.  This was a tailored training course not only giving an overview and focus on pivot tables but Patrick also introduced top tips that I found most helpful.\
\
Good course. Does what it says on the tin. Knowledgeable and enthusiastic trainer.\
Clear, easy to follow instructions and repetition when asked. All basics were covered and more complicated features are probably best left to find intuitively when needed. \
Very informative and useful. Thank you.\
\
\
I'd like to work through a complicated document received with incorrect formatting from scratch as that is the real challenge!\
\
\
Tech problems delayed the start of the session\
I would like to have gone through a complex document such as one of the research documents that we receive with many different kinds of complex errors in it with a view to making it accessible. otherwise the course was excellent\
I knew how to use styles and the shortcuts, and some key points on how to make a document accessible, but it was good to have a refresher, and then learn some new skills such as how to use Tabs correctly, adding Alt text to images and tables\
The pace was fast at the beginning however I did grasp the concepts when we went into the exercises and demonstrations.  It would have been useful at the beginning to experience how JAWS etc works for the user.\
Very helpful refresher on basic accessibility, as well as learning new shortcuts, tabs and style properties. Also found the table of contents useful and how to utilise the Accessibility Checker. Thanks!\
\
\
\
did what it said on the tin,\
\
I really enjoyed the course i have learnt alot on this course.\
\
\
very helpful\
Paul is a very good communicator, knows his material very well. Helpful and appoachable.\
\
\
\
Excellent course - would recommend\
Excellent Training\
\
\
\
Some useful, not so easy to grasp with so less materials/ practise.\
\
Very friendly and knowledgeable trainer! \
Great course and teacher. It will be very useful in the future. Thanks! :) \
I love macros!\
Good, liked the mix of explanation, group tasks and individual tasks. Materials to take away will also be useful. One improvement could be to tailor more to BAG scenarios e.g. use our own reports such as sales report or data from our data warehouse to improve the context. \
Very useful course, I have learnt a lot and am going to use these tips lots\
Very useful! I have definitely gained a lot from this course and will be putting everything I learnt into practice!\
\
\
Good intro in a condensed course\
The course was very helpful in giving us a basic understanding of MS Project. Working through the examples was particularly useful.  The class fell behind a bit when we were adding links etc between tasks as we couldn't keep up with what Shelley was saying. Sticking to the sheet instructions instead could have been helpful!\
It would be useful to use own projects as examples\
\
\
I Would like to spend more time on some of the small aspects. Fort example i think it would be good to go over more examples and see how things link- and use real life examples of projects we have done. (We are going to do this now after the course with Shelly as we have time left!)\
Despite this being quite a technical and potentially overwhelming topic, this was delivered in a concise and engaging manner. Useful training that I hope to take forward in my work with support from the wider team. \
Thought it was very useful in terms of refreshing my memory on the software, and how much content it has now it  terms of additional function.\
\
Very patient instructor, personable, friendly and informative\
\
I didn't receive the pdf ahead of the training so can't comment on the materials.  The handout with exercises was clear and easy to follow.\
\
The course and trainer were good however it would have been good to have a session that was more bespoke and tailored to a very basic level for new users and actual projects\
This was a very good Microsoft Project course, with a good course leader. It cover the basics to Project very well, and gave a good grounding going forward, and everything was broken down step by step. Having been on another Microsoft Project course, this was much better, and easy to follow. \
Great course. really useful. Shelley was very flexible in answering questions\
Lost a bit of energy in the afternoon but overall was a great introduction to MS project. Thank you! \
The teacher was really prepared and his way of communicate the information was fluent and captivating.\
\
Nice learning. Interactive trainer.\
\
\
It was a really useful course which has taught me how reports and information that I use on daily basis is created\
Very useful course, I have learnt many useful new skills which will enable me to work more efficiently. Thank you! \
\
Was very useful and Paul went through the content clearly and helped with my questions. \
It was hands-on and very in depth it covered all my questions and I was able to ask if I did not understand something. different aspects of my job was covered eg templates and letters. mail merging was very useful tips I can use straight away in work. \
Good format, we were able to ask specific questions related to our own experiences and solve individual problems.\
Another masterclass from Shelley\
Another excellent session!\
Excellent training session with an excellent trainer, very approachable & knowledgeable. Answered all questions.\
\
a little quick for me and covering a lot of ground in limited time.  I will benefit most from reasing the guidance notes and working through them in my own time.\
really appreciate this course very useful and lots of helpful tips and explanations\
Hi Shelley  very good but we probably need to  tell candidates at the outset what supporting material they will receive to support the course  thanks\
Brilliant course that really enlightened the world of Outlook and what it can do, rather than just for sending e-mails and calendars.  Shelley's a whizz\
\
\
Well presented helpfull\
Very useful, I have taken away skills which will certainly help me with my future workload.\
Course was given at an excellent pace for all of the staff members involved and everything was relevant to what I need to succeed in my current role. \
This was a great refresher as well as teaching new things I had not been aware of before now. I have a far clearer understanding of the basics and it ha built on my greater understanding of Excel\
V.GOOD AND INFORMATIVE \
Great course as mentioned before, really helpful and informative and have again learnt a lot of new skills. I found Vlookups and IFs particularly helpful as I need more knowledge of these for the upcoming months in the work place for reporting. \
The session was very informative and everything's been clearly explained and demonstrated. Paul was very helpful and enthusiastic to show us all the features. \
Understood the material much better than on a previous course. Not sure if due to smaller class size or that I have been using Excel more since the previous training.\
I learnt a lot more than I had expected and now feel a lot more confident using Excel. Paul was very helpful and really made sure that everybody understood. The pace that he trained at was perfect and I felt comfortable asking questions. \
Really care leaned a lot. Great tutor.\
I found it really useful to make my job easier and more efficient. Thanks!\
Thank you Paul for being so patient and teaching me new skills!  \
It was very interesting  and informative.I thought it was a bit fast for me but i enjoyed very much.\
i thought the trainer was a little to fast for us beginners as their were more advanced people on my course who seem to know what shelly was talking about\
Was really engaging and so useful - reckon will save us lots on paying for graphic designers!  Shelly had a lovely manner and I'd like to do other courses as they become available \
fantastic and most helpful. will be most useful in my work\
really useful to look at office in its updated version and got some really good hints and tips to new features and desktop publishing\
Thank you \
It was fantastic! can I have excel training next please\
really good and clear instructions given throughout \
\
\
Shelley was excellent - very patient and very clear\
Great course, really interesting, I look forward to getting creative!! Highly beneficial for my daily work. \
\
This is very useful and I will definitely use the tools and skills I have used today. \
Shelley was very clear and an excellent trainer \
always useful to do  a training course with Shelley!\
\
Tutor provided a very personalised lesson and was happy to go back and repeat bit that I had not understood.\
The course has helped me learn new ways to save time when exporting and working on excel spreadsheets. Very informative.\
Really great course, Paul is great and taught me a lot of things I  didn't already know which will now be very useful for me now when using spreadsheets/working on reports at work. I will now be able to complete excel tasks a lot faster due to this new knowledge and shortcuts.\
Very useful to remember and learn different functions\
\
Paul was very patient and helped me understand excel better. Paul has showed me how to understand formulas I have never understood them before.  Overall I will be taking a lot of knowledge from the training day and would like to thank Paul for all his efforts and patience.    Looking forward to the intermediate training day with him.  Thanks again Paul :) \
I found the course, gave me a good overall knowledge of the Surface Pro and met my objectives.\
\
\
I learned what I wanted to learn - how to use the Surface as a tablet and how to set up the phone hotspot.  As a criticism of Microsoft,  I find the constant updates of Office to be filled with boys toys;  rather like the washing machine with 66 programmes, when you only ever use 3. I find myself yearning for 'Office Middle Aged' - a simplified version of Office without all the noise. I don't actually do very much IT stuff, and I won't make use of about 98.5% of the capability of the programmes.  But I do appreciate the training and found Shelley very engaging.\
\
Introduction and fact finding to gauge peoples level of knowledge and skills (perhaps a questionnaire in advance would have been helpful)so the session could have been more tailored. Asking people to bring their kit into the session beforehand would have saved time. Shame the Wifi wasn't working. The course content overall was geared to touch screens but not totally disadvantaged by not having this. .  The tips and hints provided were excellent - are these available and could these be sent to everyone? I discovered that the shortcuts would help me work smarter and save so much time - can't remember them all though! It would be useful to have more training in each of the programmes - word / excel / PowerPoint / outlook. \
\
There were quite a few sections that I found something useful in.  I shall be putting some of these into action.  Shelley was lovely and approachable and took time explaining things where needed.\
Exactly what I requested, tailored to my needs as office manager.  Brilliant.\
\
Could be a little slower paced to allow time to practice.\
\
\
Excellent and very useful\
\
\
\
maybe just me but i found it too fast paced\
Course was quite good, covered a lot in the time possible. Useful.\
I like to take notes and she moved a little too fast for me to write notes and perform the tasks/examples \
Could be slower paced in places to allow more practical time.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
A bit fst for me, but understood when shown location on the creen.\
\
Excellent, straight to the point of more advanced functions without covering unnecessary basics.\
\
\
Very well explained. Great Training!\
Very good for people with a basic understanding of excel. I would recommend a higher level for people who already have a lot of experience in excel \
Very helpful and informative.  Shelly was very patient with me.\
\
explained and demonstrated well using the projecting screen\
More examples needed. Somewhat fast.\
\
\
\
Objectives achieved. Satisfied. \
Really useful course.  Easy to follow.  \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
We could have gone slower at times and practiced repeatedly.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent training session! Extremely helpful and informative, answered all my questions and queries. \
\
\
\
\
I liked the pace of the training session.\
Very good beginners course. Delivered at a pace I found easy to follow and not too overwhelming!\
\
\
\
picked up some good tips\
Shelley was a fantastic teacher, the course went beyond my expectations!\
I could have done with some practice actually making some documents accessible but other than that I learnt a lot.\
\
\
\
\
\
Very helpful, trainer was very easy to understand and informative. Overall very satisfied\
Really practical training with useful hints and tips. It would be useful to add an afternoon session to support clearing e-mails. \
Great trainer, very engaging, learned a lot of new little things which will help me to be more efficient. \
\
A very useful session. I learnt lots of new information today and Shelley's presentation was very interesting. She was very helpful and easy to understand. \
\
\
\
The course was delivered well and at a good pace.  The only criticism is that it did not cover all of the expectations of the group which we were asked to highlight at the beginning. I feel this was due to the first half of the course covering the basics (beginners level) and I was expecting it to be focused at an intermediate level.\
Very informative and interesting course\
\
\
\
\
\
Shelley was exceptional, explaining everything in detail and answering any questions along the way.\
was really helpful and interesting\
Great.  Thanks.\
\
The course was too rushed and is only suitable for people who already have some knowledge of the whole content of the course.  Where one has no previous knowledge of some areas the course is not at all suitable as the tutor does everything and the attendees have no opportunity to do hands on practice with examples during the training.  As the tutor knows everything inside out, then its very easy to just carry on and forget that the people training need time and support to at least have some understand of everything.  Part of the areas covered went completely over my head and I did not learn anything.  Enough time is not allocated for proper training.    I left the course feeling very disappointed.\
As this was a refresher for me it was valuable but not sure how valuable to people who have no knowledge of Softology.\
I am new to the Company and found this course very useful. Thank you.\
I would have preferred a hands on training , at a slower pace .\
Great workshop, also got to ask questions about excel that were not related to the workshop and trainer was able to help\
\
\
\
\
really well explained and in simple terms so it wasnt confusing. \
It was a great overview of office 365 \
good course and made my life easier with outlook\
\
\
\
Went very quickly, maybe do all the content over 2 sessions. \
\
Very well run and knowledgeable trainer \
found the trainer really helpful, felt confident to ask if i didn't understand something and found all of what was taught is going to help with day to day work. Also found it really helpful that we was shown everything step by step and was able to follow, rather than just watching someone else doing to steps.\
\
Trainer handled teaching course extremely well\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
ok\
Very good course\
\
\
Mike was really helpful and understand what we are looking for and which use of excel we have \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The course was very useful and we covered a lot in the short time.\
\
Felt the training was a  bit basic at many points. We asked for certain aspects to learn about that would relate to what we do at work i.e. Pivot tables and it wasnt covered.  Would be good to have more work related content\
\
Could do with notes to take away or longer to make notes so that all that's learnt isn't forgotten.\
Great trainer! \
Paul was very good at making sure everyone understood each section however I think our group was too large (17 people) for dedicated assistance. I learnt a lot of interesting tips and tricks and would just have liked a little more one on one time. If we could bring example reports/spreadsheets from our place of work, we could ensure the information we learned was tailored to our daily tasks and therefore have a really big impact on our working life. As it stands, everything we learned was extremely useful however having to apply it to our own specific spreadsheets will take some time and practise. Thanks Paul!\
The class was great however on hindsight I think I should have taken a more advanced level as only pivot tables were new for me.\
Was good overall but as it was such a large group I felt like there was a lack of 1 to 1 support. A smaller group size would have been much better and allowed more time to ask questions and do practical work around this.   Some examples tailored more to BAG would have been useful to put these into everyday practices. \
The course was really informative and I learnt new skills as well as developing existing ones.\
I found the course really helpful. I've learned to do things that will be really beneficial to me in my work. The trainer was very patient and a great help!\
\
\
\
\
Very good and explains well\
\
maybe spent a little too much time on quick keys that are never used!\
Excellent course. Good trainer, ensured everyone's understanding and took time to explain when needed. Also veered off topic to teach some extra-curricular useful skills and steps which will prove very useful. \
Found it very useful\
\
Good refresher course for me and some very handy shortcuts learnt\
\
Good initiation to Excel. \
Course was really helpful in refreshing my basic understanding of excel. Course was tailored to meet individual needs and covered all areas that  I wanted refreshing on . Trainer was really helpful and easy to understand and follow along with in terms of practical exercises.\
\
very informtive and knowledgeable\
Very useful for people of ranging abilities \
Really accessible! Very informative and useful!  \
Enjoyed the course, met all requirements, very friendly trainer.   Would recommend. \
Overall excellent for beginners. Pat went at a good measured pace considering our different levels and we all came away with something useful. I would definitely recommend.\
Well spent couple of hours - great pace and engagement from the trainer\
\
\
Technical issues made the course difficult, but Mike was very good and sped things up to fit the time allowed. \
\
N/A\
\
I honestly wasn't expecting much from this, but I've actually used loads and helped team members out in the last day so it's obviously been useful. Mike is also a great trainer and I learnt a lot from his Excel couse too.\
perfect\
\
\
\
Very useful.  Lots of information and presented in a way that's easy to understand\
additional training required\
\
Very informative, but would have liked more opportunity to practice as the shown.\
Shelley is an excellent, highly experienced trainer. Patient and knowledgeable, she worked with care to instruct and demystify various IT knowledge gaps I have. \
Shelley is brilliant and was able to sort out the annoying little things that I couldn't do in excel and word.  Brilliant teacher.\
As usual Shelley was able to answer all my questions and helped me do things I needed to do.\
It was very helpful!\
\
The only improvement I would suggest would be more hands-on editing of word documents, rather than just watching the trainer do it.  We could even all work on the same documents and follow through the steps, mimicking the trainer. Personally I find that I remember things better if I have done them myself.  However this was generally really good, the explanations were clear and the pace was good, so I still learned a lot.\
it did achieve objectives however challenge is to go away now and enforce what we covered in the day to day workings of the office  \
\
Very well tailored to personal issues and needs related to how to better use Outlook.  Trainer very knowledgeable on both the programme itself but also on approaches on how to manage emails more effectively.  Such a broad approach of understanding was very helpful for me.\
As well as training groups, it's really beneficial to receive 1-2-1 training for any 'techy' problems and Shelley was excellent! I feel fully equipped to organise my Outlook inbox by using Rules and Quick Steps.\
I was a slightly more advanced used, this was a really good introductory course which was what was required, so there were only a few things in here I didn't know.  On the other hand, good to get people up to a similar page in the manual!   \
\
\
\
\
Very useful and I will put into practice formulas, 'if' statements, VLookups and concatenate. Thanks Shelley! :)\
I found the whole training session very interesting and although I am not sure how I can apply all of the new functions to my work, I am keen to try them out and I already know that some of them will very useful, such as naming ranges.\
Really handy tricks & shortcuts, plus a refresh of formulas\
Great training easy to understand and follow\
I didn't realise the course was focused on accessible documents for the visually impaired.  I think this should be reflected in the title of the course.  I learnt a few good tips for writing documents in the future. \
\
If the instructors had more of an understanding on screen readers that would be useful. Otherwise excellent I understand how to use word much better.\
Maybe it would be useful to have a section where we see a screen reader in action.\
The course was well presented but I do not feel it fully met my requirements. There was too much information to retain and I still don't feel confident that I would be able to use Skype.\
\
\
very informative and useful. Would definitely recommend to other new starters\
Very pleasant training session. I was able to improve the effectiveness of my day-to-day working processes.\
Really great training, I felt like I learnt a lot.\
\
\
\
\
I'm not the most IT literate person so it takes me a while to get my head around something like Lync or Skype.  I get easily thrown if I try something and it doesn't work first time, where as more confident users  will fiddle around and try other ways.  For me,  the training  jumped about a bit - but that could be the nature of the system.  Anyway, it showed me the range of things that can be done on Lync/Skype and that in itself was very useful.\
The Skype for Business/Lync training was very useful to learn, although at present, it does not directly relate to the work I do. In future it will be useful to use the calling function to communicate with our Overseas members.\
I'm afraid I was tied up on a meeting which over ran, so joined the training late - therefore difficult to give accurate, fair  feedback.\
Training gave a good overall view of what Skype can be used for in business, with lots of practical examples.  \
Overall, the course was very good and I learned a lot. I was a little be confused at the very beginning because I really wasn't sure what I was looking at. (ie I was asked to send an IM to confirm I was attending...but didn't know how to do this.) So I thought a brief intro of the basics would have helped initially. But it was pretty self explanatory after that. \
\
There was quite a lot to take in, so I hope that I will remember what I have been taught back at my desk.\
Very well thpught out course\
Was delivered quite quickly as I was a complete novice. A slightly slower approach would've been more beneficial. \
\
\
\
\
Pace could have been quicker during morning. Most complex material was (understandably) at the end but felt rushed. \
\
Really impressed with the way Shelley tailored the course content, on the spot, to match the needs of our team.\
\
\
\
I knew nothing about Illustrator, so this course has improved my knowledge of this subject. I just need to practice these new skills in my job. \
I really enjoyed this course. I needed to refresh and improve my knowledge of Photoshop and this course helped me to do just that. \
I would personally go through some of the activities making sure they were all completed before going onto the next activity, sometimes went too fast otherwise good. \
Training a bunch of salesman was never going to be easy. But Shelley met our needs, was informative and kept it to a pace that suited us.\
Good trainer with a relaxed style.\
Very knowledgeable trainer with a relaxed style that suited the session well. \
Really useful stuff - we'll be using our new knowledge as soon as possible. \
\
\
The trainer was very helpful and patient. Explained very thoroughly \
\
i would liked to work from some worksheet to take away to keep and refresh memory if needed\
Very good course and trainer but some people picked things up more quickly than others which led to not all topics being covered which was frustrating.  Obviously not the trainer's fault, who was excellent and very patient. \
\
\
\
\
I loved the course. I felt it was a bit advanced for me and Mike went very fast but once I caught up it was very helpful. I also could have used more examples of how I could use the tools for work at Awin as most examples were broad but helpful in general.\
\
Really useful info, trainer was happy to explain things in depth and made everything very clear. \
Love exercise bit \
The trainer was very thorough and worked and a suitable pace for the group. It would have been useful to have done some live demo's to know where some of the headers, titles are.\
A brilliant course, I now feel like I can navigate my way around Excell and work everything I need it to do. \
Remained energetic and enthusiastic throughout - I know we are a tough crowd!\
\
It opened my eyes to certain tools that I wasn't aware of.  Such as the master view etc.\
\
\
\
A really useful course, have already started using what I learnt and shared with the team!\
I feel that there's more that could be covered within the time frame. We got slighly distracted with some practise towards the end and ran out of time to cover last few points. Overall it was good though.\
Definitely would have benefited more had i taken this course a couple of months back, but it still taught me useful shortcuts and an understanding of how things work, rather than just what to do.\
\
\
I really like the examples  they very easy to fallow. \
I did learn a few things that i did  not know prior to this training. I found the trainer to be very helpful.\
Shelley is very personable and knowledgeable and adapted the course to the varying levels of knowledge from the trainees\
\
\
\
This is the second time I attended this excel training and now that I have been at Affiliate Window a couple of months I took a lot more information in this time round & thought it was very well planned and executed. \
\
I really enjoyed the course, and felt like it was taught very clearly and at a good pace. It was really helpful to apply the formulas and techniques to a practical situation. The end document will be a useful reference point in the future if I ever need to brush up on what I learnt in the course. \
\
\
Mike was really helpful and explained things in an easy to understand way. We started with more simple things which built a foundation to move onto more complicated parts. The pace he went at was spot on and I feel like I took loads away from the session. Thank you!\
\
\
\
Clearly met the objectives, great introduction to excel formulas. Overall, very useful. \
The technical issues at the start were frustrating and wasted time for other participants.  Personally I already knew and used a lot of the content but there were two or three good tips. I can see that this was a good way of learning for those who had not come across this before. \
\
Good overall, found getting logged in quite stressful despite starting early but sounds like it was unavoidable. Shelley very concise.\
Thanks - that was helpful\
\
Shelley is very clear and I enjoyed the session. Very useful.\
\
Good tricks to make PPT presentations look better and improve how information is communicated. \
\
\
\
\
Shelley delivered the course with the utmost professionalism and expertise - she made it so easy and is an excellent teacher.\
Shelley delivered the course with the utmost professionalism and expertise - she made it so easy and is an excellent teacher.\
I thought Shelley was very patient and she seemed to understand the issues people face with IT very well.  The format worked well as it prevented people getting left behind - Shelley checked regularly whether people understood. I found the training very useful as I didn't realize all the things I'm not currently doing!\
\
very helpful\
\
it was very useful, in particular as a reminder that the functions are available in Word.  Not only are they shortcuts and a more efficient way of formatting a document but they also increase the accessibility\
Very interesting, has changed the way I will think about making documents and I learnt a lot of useful tips I will be able to use everyday\
\
I learned lots of tips that can easily be put into practice every day, and hopefully make things I produce more accessible more quickly. I liked the style of training. \
Really useful \
\
I learnt a lot of useful information throughout, but IT issues meant that we couldn't listen to some of the second half. A computer fault on our side, but still a disadvantage for running any online courses.\
\
\
Very good content and presenter\
\
\
The scale above doesn't work but I would have given 10. Very good course, enjoyable and good speed.\
Excellent course - unfortunately I was on a mac which the content was not tailored for buy Shelley did a great job in finding mac equivalents for every aspect of the content.\
Excellent. Straightforward and simple to use.\
I learnt some better ways of working.\
\
\
\
I've learned some very useful techniques - after years of DIY.  The accessibility checker will be particularly useful as I have had problems with paragraphs 'moving around'.\
Really useful tips and tools to be more efficient and effective in producing accessible documents. Despite using Microsoft Office for years I have learnt about tools I have never used before that will assist my work. \
I learned some useful tips and shortcuts that can be used in documents I create regularly.\
I was actually unsure if it would be relevant or helpful to me before hand but it was.  It was engaging, practical, useful and Shelley made sure we were all heard and were interactive.  It was very helpful and I learnt a lot. Thank you\
Thank you Shelley.  A very useful course!\
\
Shelley was very good at explaining  and answering all questions . All showing examples I might use in a daily basis.\
Answered the issues I had\
\
\
Very Useful Would have liked for Hyperlinks to have been covered in more detail as I have not used them before\
Would have been helpful to have had more an overview of what we were going to learn and objectives rather than launching straight into training although I understand that would have added more time to session.\
\
\
I have learnt a lot about accessibility best practice and realise now that the way I worked previosuly was not acceptable.  Thank you for enlightening me.\
\
Very useful - shame I didn't have this training at University!\
great way to learn in office environment however sometimes difficult if office a little noisy \
N/A\
Good clear run through of all the formatting and accessibility issues.  Worked pretty well on webex\
\
Very useful course that will help implement changes to the way we work. \
\
It would have been good to have a clearer introduction to the topic overall and explain why we were looking at the documents.  I would be interested to know how we can make more documents other than word more accessible.  It was useful to learn how to check the document for accessibility and learnt more about using tabs which was useful.  An explanation of tabs over tables wasn't entirely clear.  It would also be useful to understand a bit more how documents that haven't been made accessible come across to users with access needs to understand better the benefits of the techniques that were learnt.\
This is a good way of organising training.  Would be good for HLF to do this for other technical training, eg. intermediate Excel.\
I'm would have liked a clearer outline of what the course objectives were, but that's probably HLF's responsibility. I'm not sure it was necessary to name the colleagues who are blind or partially sighted, didn't seem relevent. Learnt some very useful short cuts and general Word skills. Shelley is clear and communicates well. \
I\
I wasn't quite clear at the beginning what we were aiming to do - I would have preferred a clearer statement.  Some bits were too quick for me and others very slow - I would have found more exercises throughout to embed the training and test that I had fully understood.  Many thanks \
It would have been useful to have a bit more info upfront in the course rather than getting down to the small details straightway without putting them in context  - perhaps put the summary slides from the end up front\
\
Contents very clear - not sure about webinar technology which detracted a little.\
The format for training delivery worked very well\
\
\
\
I took away new knowledge which will be useful in my creation of documents at HLF. I also learned about participating in a webinar session, which will be useful in my role as a member of the corporate training group.\
I will not be able to use some of the content of this course due to the nature of my job and the restrictions on our house style which we curently have, but it was really useful and I hope to make use of all of it if not now but in the future.\
This was a very good way of interactive learning. It definitely felt like fun as well as provding useful information. \
\
Most of the subject matter I already knew in terms of the features of Word.  However it was good to learn some of the principles behind accessible documents.\
Did know quite a bit about the tools but couse provided a better rationale for using them.\
Will only be effective when I have played around and practised as it takes a while to sink in plus my finger damage makes me a bit slower than I would like!\
Printed hand outs detailing steps carried out in training would have helped, which I could then add notes to.\
It would have been useful if the trainer had explained at the beginning about the relevance of  the Screen Reader and how what formatting used affects the user of the Screen Reader. \
Would be helpful if questions asked by other participants had been repeated as it was not easy to hear.  I managed to guess what they were talking about on this occasion though so didn't see a need to raise this with the trainer but other participants may find it more challenging\
It was my first time using webinar training - it worked well. As with all training sessions, people often know some bits and don't know others - but for the bits I did know, it was good to get a refresher. \
I prefer to have the slides prior to course so that I can write on them and it helps me to make sense when I look back over my notes.\
Great, I feel much better equipped to write for any audience now\
\
The course gave me fresh knowledge and a clear objective of improving future documents that I have to create.\
I did learn some very useful things but felt the format was far too time consuming.  I would have liked what I learnt, such as repeat headers, Table of Contents, to be in a manual so that I can read that next time I want to use them.\
Course highly fit for purpose. Excellent facilitation with great clarity and welcoming style from trainer.\
Very good\
\
\
steady pace, practical and interactive, useful suggestions.\
Shelley is a great trainer and made difficult topics easy to understand. She managed to deal well with the differing levels of knowledge in the group and the different ways people learn\
great teacher with great communication! helped deepen my knowledge and get a greater understanding.  \
GREAT! X\
Unfortunately the course didn't seem long enough to fit in all of the topic areas. Traditionally, the course would have lasted a day, and three hours seemed very crammed. It would have been more beneficial to have an explanation and then be given time to do a worked example, however, in three hours this would have been impossible. I've not yet received the course material which is why I've only voted two stars.  Nonetheless, a really great course which has helped no end with my Excel knowledge!\
I found the course extremely informative. Mike was fantastic at explaining the concepts and taking us through step by step. I've come away with useful skills that will make my day to day work easier and more efficient. \
Excellent content, have learnt and used new skills.\
Mike is clearly an expert using Excel and his demonstrations were clear and helpful.  Mike mentioned that the session that we attended was meant to be at minimum a full day and a half if not longer and that we would have to rush through it to keep to schedule.  The session we had was only scheduled for a morning - as someone who was arriving with a limited knowledge and eager to learn,  I felt that we rushed through the day. Time for assistance, questions, general discussion or ways these examples could be applied to our roles in the company  a longer session would have definately afforded me sufficient time to get to grips with the programme.  I would have also liked to have seen some supporting documents provided on the day with information on the different elements and functions to work with during the session and then review after. Due to the pace of the session there was not sufficient time to take notes so upon leaving much of what I have learnt today has left my head!  I would definately recommend Mike and this course again - HOWEVER this would only be on the basis that this course is held as at least a full days training.  I would ideally follow with a refresher the next day and/or at least some form of a test that can be given during the course once the lesson is finished to measure how well the information has been received by the participants.\
Training really good but too short.\
\
I am really happy to have advanced on my basic knowledge of things I have already learned in Microsoft Excel. \
Was alright. More time and exercise needed.\
Great trainer who answered all questions and gave help where needed.\
\
\
\
Shelley is a wonderful trainer, very patient! \
It would have been nice to have a handout of what was discussed at the end.\
\
The course was good, some of the tips I was already aware of but I did learn some new ones and will be sharing these with my colleagues.\
\
\
At least one of the questions asked were answered that it wasn't possible (to print all the documents in an e mail as part of a group rather than individually) when it is (it's in the print settings and have to open the e mail and go to file and print (then tick the box saying print all attachments in settings).  Maybe if unsure of the answer ask people in the room or make a note and get back to people via e mail?  Other than that I thought the session was really good and picked up a number of new tips.  Extremely helpful - thank you.\
\
\
\
It was extremely useful.  I use Outlook every day (mainly calendars and trying to fit too many meetings in!).  Finding out about quick steps was very helpful.\
I can't believe there are still so many things to learn about Outlook .........\
\
\
EVERYTHING WAS AMAZING! i would suggest increasing the performance of the the computers as it hangs and slow the process of learning \
\
\
None\
Would be good to get a manual or written text to take away at the completion of the course\
Exceeded my expectations, learned everything that was scheduled, and some more advanced stuff as a bonus. great course \
Alex is great, I really liked him as a teacher. My only comment might be that at first it was a lot of information overload, whereas it might have worked better to start with simple exercises rather than too much information, so the information seems more understandable after a bit of practical experience.\
Tim was a fantastic teacher, not only going through the course topics, but also taking the time to help me on more specific uses I'll have in my day to day job. The course was absolutely delightful.\
\
Maurice was a great teacher, great teaching metodology. Made Revit very simple to understand by explaining everything in a way that the class could easily understand.\
\
\
There should be better communication on how long the course lasts.\
\
\
Really enjoyed the 101 course, we managed to get a lot covered in 3 days whilst having plenty of time to work through any queries we had along the way.  Ruta is a fantastic instructor, she was patient and helpful and took on board our specific requests for teaching items we felt we need in our day to day work. The structure was on point and flowed very well. We all enjoyed the course and had a great time with Ruta.\
I struggle with dyslexia and at times found the trainer going too quickly. The trainer would kindly show me things again which was great.\
\
\
\
no further comment, overall a great course\
Very interesting and informative course.\
Enquired about the course and was called to personally check i wasn't throwing my money away and that it was the right course for me, very pleased with all involved. They worked really hard to make sure it was the right course for me.\
The booking process wasn't great, due to an error in communications I missed the first day. Being new to Pro CC this created problems in the rest of the week. The course felt very rushed and there wasn't a great amount of time to apply what we learned which would have really helped embed the learning.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
There was no option of using an Apple Mac which wasn't clear when booking. All other courses I have attended there have been options. We had no access to the room without someone unlocking the door so going to the toilet etc could mean you were locked out of the corridor and couldn't get back in. I would've expected lunch to be included in a course of this cost. Its a longer walk from Piccadilly than what it states on the details.\
Would have been good to have a couple of days working on a personal project, however I understand this may not be possible with everyone focusing on different things. \
The training lab itself was not a very suitable, too small, poor tables/chairs etc.. not got suitable air con and far too small for the amount of people in it.  also for the price, lunch should be provided.   i would suggest that the training could be a little more bespoke if we could have a day where it was about creating our own project with our own company's assets that we submit before hand.  \
\
The course has really allowed me to fully understand photoshop and also the skills that come with it.\
\
\
\
Really enjoyed the course it was useful and interesting.\
Looking forward to part 2 Green belt and the fact that I can come back and retake the course within 18 months is fantastic. Great course!\
\
\
\
Coffee/Tea station could use an upgrade.  Common area in need of a bit of a refurb.\
\
The course was booked for me by my company\
It was very good to have a course focused on our organisational and personal objectives\
The course delivered was fantastic; I learnt a lot and the pacing of the teaching was superb. Tim was extemely competent and also patient. His style of teaching suited me perfectly and unlike many other courses I have done I know exactly how this will positively affect my day to day working. I would thoroughly recommend to course to people at any level\
Overall I found the course excellent, it was well paced and I felt I achieved something valuable at the end of each day. Most days finished with a task that used the skills learnt earlier in the day which worked really well.\
My only comment is on the alignment of the course with the actual exam, and that is that a lot of the content in the exam seemed to be missing from the notes provided on the course/ the exercises covered in the class. Whether or not that issue lies with Certiport or AC I'm unsure, but the exam seemed especially difficult. The course has allowed me to better use the software though and I will certainly be able to implement what I've learnt in my career.\
No Adobe Certified Associate exam offered at the end yet the course was booked and paid for with that pretence. \
\
\
Had a really great time - learnt a lot and many little tip bits are likely to revolutionise my life! \
Macs we're a little on the slow side; I fell behind because I had to wait nearly 5 mins for Chrome to respond. Other than that everything was exceptional\
\
\
\
Overall the a trainer should be training not Developers - the instructor didn't explain why doing certain concepts at times in training.   Trainers should be there before the students not the otherway round.  I was disappointed with the outcome of the course in terms of delivery and no course material(manual emailed before the course)   the instructor knows about the content, but in terms of delivery there was a lot of jumping about.  The course is called Zero to Hero but at times advanced aspects were covered before the basics, also there was no real explanations at times in what was happening and when we  had to follow.  There It took until Day 3 for it be slowed down and explained in detail about certain topics.  Yet again no agenda when I informed Academy about this the first time round but nothing changed the second time round. (so the question about objectives is misleading as there were no objectives)   My understanding was who ever trained this subject the same content would be covered this was not the case, as we had people on the course saying they didn't learn certain topics last time and they did this time. The same was for me the last time I came on 2 days I have since learnt new things and things I was trained wasn't trained on my repeat of the 2 days.   I was reassured when I was to repeat the course it would be improved, sadly this was not the case in some places it was worse.   Overall the a trainer should be training not Developers - the instructor didn't explain why doing certain concepts  Overall delivery needs to be improved.  \
I received joining instructions on how to get here but no manual or details of the course programme, not advised regarding what was required. Adrian was very knowledgeable and was able to resolve and run through the software and issues that occurred but would have been nice to know what we were going to do throughout the week and that we needed some sort of project for the end of the week from the start not the day before so I could have organised something.\
No objectives or materials given before and during the sessions. Adrian new his work but struggled to teach as there was no actual objectives or plan for the course. Refreshments and staff being on time should be looked at.\
GREAT COURSE WITH LOTS OF INFORMATION COULD DO WITH PRINTED NOTES OR INFORMATION FOR FUTURE USE AND TO USE DURING COURSE QUITE HARD TO LISTEN, MAKE NOTES AND PRACTICE\
\
\
\
Thoroughly enjoyed the course and learnt a tremendous amount and got a certificate at the end of it. Very pleased I took the course \
\
\
brilliant\
\
No one at reception when i arrived on the first day\
\
Really pleased with how user friendly Autocad is. Course was enjoyable and our lecturer was very helpful. Obviously some parts tested my mind but that was good to see how these issues could be solved . would def recommend .   \
Very informative and useful, good to get a certificate at the end. Possibly would like to have had more tasks to complete individually and maybe gone over some areas slightly slower or go over harder areas a few times.\
Ruta is a very good teacher and exercised a lot of patience and very approachable. \
A BASIC TRAINING MANUAL WOULD HAVE BEEN HELPFUL\
\
\
very good\
\
\
\
Richard was very helpful and explained things and was happy to go back over anything that you was unsure of\
\
\
Some learning materials to take away and look over would be useful, maybe a hints and tips guide or a summary of each part of the course that we learn, or even just basic steps to remember.\
\
The course was enjoyable. I learnt a lot.\
\
\
Haleema was patient, listened and was very helpful in answering our questions. I really enjoyed her teaching style, relaxed yet informative!\
Haleema was such a good teacher. she really tailored the class for us and made us understand  how best to do something yet giving us the options to do it other ways if we preferred. \
Excellent from start to finish  very happy with the service and level of teaching \
The course has given a great introduction into InDesign and provided various transferable skills\
Really enjoyed the course, its contents and the way in which Ian presented. The content of the course is well positioned however, it may be that a little more advanced content could be included as a glimpse of what else can be achieved.\
As there is so much to remember and so many commands, I expected or hoped for a manual - i have made notes of many many pages, but it would be nice to have this in a nicely written comprehensive Indd manual. This would not replace the need of the course of course, but it would help jog our memory once we left the course (and in case my notes don't make sense!) \
A user-guide to take away on the topics covered would be excellent. \
A really useful training course!\
\
\
\
\
CHAKIB was great, however disappointed there was no reading material provided for the exam. The course itself did not cover everything I expected, e.g. copywriting to influence user behaviour, Tone of Voice, etc.  Difficult course to do with only one student, didn't cover all the material to the extent I would have liked. e.g. Research with multiple people, testing with multiple people, etc.\
Excellent course led by a very personable and able tutor. Enjoyed it thoroughly.\
Really great course, would highly recommend. I will be taking away lots of new skills into my workplace! Thank you Ian! I would also like to come back in for the 103 course, and maybe the exam!\
\
After never touching 3D software before the instructor was able to bring on confidence and competency all within a week.   His enthusiastic approach to teaching has made me want to continue developing my skills within 3D software.\
Needs better computers to run the software\
Incorrectly advised which level of course to take and would have spent a lot of time and money taking the incorrect course. Would have been nice if the course took all day (no late start/early finish) or concentrated into two days...\
\
PLEASE PRINT OUT TRAINING MATERIAL\
\
The course and instructor were fantastic, the facilities ie toilets were fine, coffee not great, milk ran out and water and coffee but I would book with Academy again. \
Excellent trainer, gave advice on graphic design principles, client demands and more to frame the couse content\
very helpful to learn the basics of the course - everything from start to finish was great.\
\
\
\
please print out course booklet\
Barath was very knowledgeable and keen to give information that would enhance my knowledge  \
The course was very well explained and we managed to cover a lot of ground. I can say that I feel like I can used the program now, and it has given me a good start for getting used to it. \
The Certiport exam crashed and would not reopen... I know that this isn't Academy Class' fault but it was disappointing\
\
\
The instructor was great, but the course moved too slowly. 4 days of pure Node should dive a lot deeper in to Node I feel. Every day I thought we might get into something more complex we remained relatively high level.   I would also say to decrease the number of topics broadly covered and dive deeper into the main Node topics. Potentially building something a little 'bigger' as opposed to just small examples of broad topics. \
The course was enjoyable. There were a few subjects i would have like to delved into deeper and some i would have been happy to only lightly touch on.\
\
Overall my experience was good. I had really nice instructor who knew her stuff. The facilities were nice and I felt comfortable.\
\
\
N/A\
I enjoyed the course but it was hard going and a little intense at time.  There was a lot covered without much tome to practice.\
\
Please print course material\
It would be great if the course could include a mock exam the morning of the real exam\
Very Informative course with a lot to absorb in the one week. Could perhaps do with more reinforcement at times to help learning process. \
\
i really enjoyed the class, i have learned more about revit in two day, what would have taking me a long time.  the teaching is very good, not to fast and not two slow.\
Everything ran very smoothly and the teacher was clever in helping reinforce the concepts in my mind\
course content is great. facilities are very minimal and classrooms are dusty, equipment is very basic / old and chairs are extremely uncomfortable / broken - not great for a full time course\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Would be nice to receive learning materials physically or electronically \
Course content material missing. Second week running. \
\
COURSE MATERIAL NOTES WOULD BE NICE TO HAVE PRINTED AND READY FROM THE START.\
Richard is an excellent instructor.  He is very knowledgeable, patient, and helpful.\
excellent instructor and registration process was easy and gave piece of mind.\
excellent instructor and registration process was easy and gave piece of mind.\
\
A really good course that has really opened my eyes to the possibilities of illustrator.\
\
Material handbook for course was not given.\
The course was very helpful. Specially the instructor Micheal was an expert in the field. Gained a lot of information and knowledge of him.\
I have really enjoyed these past few days. I feel I have learnt a lot and look forward to more practice at home.\
\
\
\
Friendly environment. The instructor was an expert. Had a good experience.\
Michael as a practitioner has a wealth of practical experience and as such is a great instructor for AutoCad.\
Great friendly service, Michael very experienced answering all of our questions.\
\
\
\
Great course, really informative and useful. The tutor was helpful and made sure we all understood it. Could have been slightly longer as it felt like we ran out of time at the end. \
\
\
\
Lots of different techniques explored and explained in depth.   A step up from the beginners course but not too much of a jump - still using lots of techniques learned in the 101 course.   Really informative and good pace. \
I came with some prior knowledge of After Effects but still learned lot of useful things that will save me time.\
\
Whether it has been network related issues or processor power of the computers, the work process has ben lagging. \
As I am not coming from a Graphic Designer background, I would have benefited from a bit more time practising each exercises and having a bit more one to one help. However in the 3 days, we covered a lot and I feel that I learned a lot and didn't feel overwhelmed. Very positive indeed. I just need to practise! Ben is obviously very knowledgeable and communicates in a very clear manner\
VEry knowleadgable instructor. Interesting, enjoyable lessons, just the right amount of information. Was very happy about the pace which let us take our time to process all the new information that was given to us.\
The pace of the course could have been a little faster for me but the balance for the group seemed ok.   I like the side demonstration screen and the overall room setup. The computers are too slow. Better coffee in the breakout room.\
Great course.\
\
\
\
Brilliant course - I was a total newcomer and now I feel confident that I could do the essentials of After Effects on my own.   Ian the instructor was very listenable and engaging while teaching. He was attentive to those who asked questions or needed help and gave us interesting tasks to do to keep us engaged!   Would highly recommend to others. \
a lot of information to take in\
Great course, needed a lot of help but Ian very patient. Found it hard going but hopefully with practice should get the benefits of this course and utilise them in my current role \
Great course with a great teacher.\
I enjoyed the course thoroughly. \
We overcame some initial issues which lead to a very enjoyable and inclusive experience\
\
\
\
Problematic when trying to book and took quite some time for them to sort it out. The course was good and informative.\
\
I took this course 6 years ago and haven't used it since. Its a great course and I learned a lot. I would also recommend to anyone who wants to learn this course. However there are some fundamental parts that from my opinion wasn't covered. As we created a building and through this making we learned how to use Revit, there was no coverage for foundation and basement section specially with walls or piles that goes underground.\
\
\
After a little initial confusion my needs were met. \
The content of the course could have been reduced slightly and more time devoted to fewer subjects to ensure better understanding\
Very enjoyable and informative course. Learning material was very good and the instructor was very helpful.\
\
Very enjoyable informative course. Sold the benefits of BIM in a very convincing manner!\
I was provided very little information about the course before attending and had to request this by e-mail.\
My sincere thanks to Tony and his patience \
Interesting course and I liked that we had a tutor screen that we could see and follow. A schedule of topics to follow of what is being taught would be helpful as a reminder to know what has been covered and what will be covered next.   Wasn't provided the pre-information details to the course due to being booked on late.\
Interesting course and I liked that we had a tutor screen that we could see and follow. A schedule of topics to follow of what is being taught would be helpful as a reminder to know what has been covered and what will be covered next.   Wasn't provided the pre-information details to the course due to being booked on late.\
Excellent course. I think I knew a fair amount about Premier already, so I found it quite easy, as I have self taught myself. However there are always things you might have missed, that you pick up. Good course to cover the basics. Booking the course was however very difficult and computers/software was a bit problematic such as crashes and new update bugs.\
The facilities are good and I'm very happy with Ruta as an instructor. She did a brilliant job, she has a great knowledge of the program and a lot of patience too! Thank you!\
Very Satisfied. Great Teacher and really helpful.\
\
\
The course has been really great. Ruta is very welcoming and makes you feel at ease. My only comment is that I think that, for my ability, level I would have liked it to be a little slower. \
\
\
\
Really nice and concise content, that was curated specifically towards us.\
\
Ben sings way too much!!! ;)\
Overall a very thorough and enjoyable course. The instructor was knowledgeable and broke everything down to an easy to understand level. Elements of the course were split up into small chunks which made them easy to digest. The pace of the course was just right for beginners.\
\
\
\
\
Excellent course, fantastic course instructor. Would certainly recommend.\
Very good course, felt comfortable asking questions and have come away with a much greater knowledge\
Really great course, very informative. I've used unity for 1 year but mainly coding, in this course I've learn how to mange without any scripting and new components such as normal mapping, bump mapping, physics material etc...  \
Came to it from scratch and have learnt a lot. Imantas was a good teacher.  \
The only part of the booking and facilities I was part of was the registration. another colleague took care of everything else.\
Very useful and fun!\
\
\
I'm not a Mac users and found navigating the Mac's menus a challenge, perhaps some  pre-course video in this area would have helped\
I'm not a Mac users and found navigating the Mac's menus a challenge, perhaps some  pre-course video in this area would have helped\
Really great intro course and Tim was a fantastic instructor.  I was a bit worried about doing the course remotely but it was really easy to do so and Tim made sure I felt part of the group.  \
\
best course ever. it was fantastically delivered instructor was wonderful enjoyed the course very much great venue and support throughout look forward to completing the next part of the course\
Really enjoyed it and found it useful. Some printed material to take away with covered information would have been useful.\
I was a newbie and now I feel like I have learned alot about InDeisgn and will utilise this learning in my work place\
Ian was great at moving through the work without going too fast or too slow. Help was always given when asked for and Ian was very friendly and approachable. \
\
good pace for the most part, maybe smaller groups would make sure epople could get through faster than those that took slightly longer to grasp things\
\
\
\
I think catering should be provided. I'm not sure, but I don't recall being informed that the course would not be catered. If it's not catered (and it's the first course I've ever attended which hasn't been), this should be made clearer.\
\
I have hugely enjoyed this course conducted by a skilled, patient and knowledgeable instructor (Marek). The teaching style was perfect for me and allowed me to gain the skills required.\
\
My rates are not high because I still do not understand the program. Also I can't rate about training materials because I have not had the chance to look at them. I would have preferred to have training material from the course.\
\
Comprehensive course that allowed me to actively explore the possibilities that Revit offers\
The course content and presenter were excellent. The lab was crowded, with little space for me to move in my chair.\
\
Great course structured for real designers and architects.\
Really great Cinema 4D course. Ben was so helpful and made sure I was keeping up with the class through each stage. Fantastic first experience of the programme. \
\
\
Very good instructor with a wealth of knowledge and found it very interesting and easy to follow. \
Great course delivered by a great instructor. Pace was perfect for a complete beginner to Photoshop like myself. I can't wait to do the next course in the programme.\
\
\
\
Fantastic course that I would recommend to any all beginners in After Effects.\
\
\
I really enjoyed the experience, and feel so much more confident thanks to an amazing course and a brilliant teacher.\
Having used ACAD for some years now, I thought I would be at intermediate level. However, having joined the course it was painfully apparent that there were some basic items of knowledge that I was missing and I would have been better starting again at the bottom. I suggest building some kind of level-assessment tool into the booking software.\
\
Not a fan of the training approach. I'd prefer to have course notes/slide pack so I could concentrate on the demonstrations and for later review/referral during my day to day work.  Layout of the training room made communication with the instructor difficult.\
\
\
\
BETTER BISCUIT SELECTION PLEASE \
I wasn't involved in the booking / registration process, but the course was great.\
Really enjoyed the course and felt I can take alot away from it to apply to my work and to personally develop further.\
Amazing tutor, made things very simple and happy to help with any concerns.\
Really well delivered, patient and helpful guidance throughout.\
fantastic course - it was so good that I would not have dreamed of doing this elsewhere.\
\
I have enjoyed the course and have learned a lot. The teacher has been good. It's a lot of information to take in at such a short timescale though.     The only issue is that the toilet facilities aren't very good. \
\
The Experience has been great throughout,  Warm Regards, Rob \
I came into the course having 0 experience and after 3 days, I feel that I've learned a tremendous amount of useful skills to navigate the program efficiently.  \
\
\
The trainer has a good knowledge of the subject\
\
\
Usually on courses like this, you're given handouts to follow a curriculum, and that you can refer to when trying things out at home. We've not been given anything, and we're starting each day without a clear understanding of goals and what's to be achieved or the likely outcomes for each day. Computers are slow and crash a lot.\
Great course, would recommend. Bit of room for improvement, listed below. \
\
Great introduction taught at a good pace.   Would have been great to have been given hand-outs / cheat sheets to help remember the things we have been taught later down the line.\
Great course, highly recommend\
Fantastic class with an amazing teacher. We learnt the basics and then went through various skills we might find useful, it was loads of fun and very interesting and useful.\
\
Ben is a fantastic teacher - very patient and brilliant at explaining everything. He made the whole experience really really enjoyable. \
\
\
\
extremely useful - met more than what I needed to know which is fantastic.  Instructor is open to having questions raised in the class which may not normally be covered. \
\
\
\
The course was fantastic to gain a deeper understanding of After Effects. The majority of the course was an absolute gold mine of information. The time saved in the future from what I've learned will be huge and it also answered questions that I've had for a while and never found answers too. Great course, Fun and Highly reccomeneded\
The course was great, only issue was the machines kept crashing due to bugs in the software which slowed things down slightly.\
The course was really good. I can definitely see practical applications for the things we learned and feel that it will benefit my development as a designer.\
Hardware was not fit for purpose - crashed several times on Roto Brush Exercises (this unfortunately was the problem on the last course.  Learnt a lot of new techniques - that will find useful but some repetition from last course (3D) (Ian was particularly helpful)\
Loved the training. Ideally I would have liked to spend more time on some of the more advanced aspects.\
Terrible Training facility, squashed in and only able to move to a (only just) larger classroom on the final two days! Temperature uneven and chairs awful. Cramped desktop conditions not conducive to learning....\
Course material was very similar to the After Effects 101 course that we had recently taken, so did feel a bit of a repetition and didn't push skills along much from there.  Hardware (PC's) do not have the performance to handle the Software and crashed on a number of us at times. This meant that it was difficult to keep up with the instructor, and by trying to play 'catch-up' didn't fully understand some of the material.\
Good course, clear and varied. Easy to understand. Great tutor.  We booked to work on Macs but they were not provided. The room was cramped.\
\
\
This was a good foundation course, understanding what each tool does and navigating around the system.  Additional training would be required for specific areas the company wants us to use Illustrator for.\
Personally I really struggled with this course.  I found it hard to watch the instructor show what to do then remember where to find the icons.  The course did cover what it set out to cover, but I felt it went quite fast for a complete novice. \
Would have loved in-person training, but it was great working with Iman remotely.\
\
I feel that I personally could of done with a extra day - more time to go over and practice the exercises\
\
Excellent course - came away with a much broader knowledge and notes for future projects\
IT PROBLEMS! When taking an online course it is really irritating to spend almost 1/3 of the first day with computer problems. Since the sound from the computer I was controlling was not transferred, I was unable to edit sound. When I started using my own computer, the instructor could not see my monitor live. Just some issues I did not expect of a professional course provider.  \
IT systems we quite poor. we spent far too much time having technical difficulties (not the fault of the trainer) I was only told after the course started that i wouldnt be able to do the final exam on-line. Again, not the fault of the teacher but that should have been made clear from the start.  All in all i found it a very good course\
\
\
Registration process was made very easy., and the teacher was very friendly and down to earth which created a very informal comfortable learning environment.\
Chakib is a fantastic tutor, throughout the course he really engaged with the group though activities and discussions. What made the course stand out is the hands on approach, learning through doing that has made me feel so confident and passionate about UX design. As someone that already has some experience designing digital interfaces, it gave me the depth of understanding I need to make my work truly user-centric.\
good experience and learning hope for the best  Thanks\
\
Communication building up to the course from Academy Class wasn't great. Course itself was good. Tutor very good. I could have probably gone a bit deeper into some of the subjects but was held back a bit by the other person getting trained as they took longer to grasp things (no offence)!\
Wasn't told that I would have to sit the exam in Manchester (I'm in Glasgow) so disappointed that I couldn't get the ACA qualification straight away. Exam fee refunded quickly.\
\
Course gave me everything I needed to understand html and css and start coding front end.  The pace was really good and very practical which was good.  I felt that at the end the speed increased by 300% and we were just copying him rather than learning. So I fell behind. Other than that, it was a good pace.\
Learnt a lot thanks very much\
\
\
Excellent course, ran professionally and effectively. Would recommend to anyone\
I would have liked to receive a bit more detailed information on paper, as it would have been easier to practice at home. \
I would liked to have had more info about parking/lunch etc before the course started so I knew more about what to expect.\
There were some technical difficulties which were overcome quickly. The sound is a little crackly and could be better.\
\
\
\
\
\
I thoroughly enjoyed the course. Ian was very knowledgeable and was able to answer any questions. He delivered the course well and with confidence. The course covered everything I needed to know about InDesign. I will be going away to practice and will be booking on to the advanced course in the future.\
Tony made the course very enjoyable and well paced - I'm very happy with the amount we managed to cover in the week and even happier to have passed the exam!\
I really enjoyed the course and it's contents and I learned a lot! The only comment I have is regards the course description in the website mentioned that at some point the course will focus entirely on scripting, I thought the course will include a lot of scripting which it wasn't. \
\
Enjoyed the course just felt it was a lot to go over in 2 days.\
\
After various Photoshop course fails I was so glad to find Academy Class expert teaching\
\
Tony was an exceptional instructor. He was clear and emphasised important elements to be aware of. \
Excellent training from Tony - good pace and very informative\
\
Richard was an excellent instructor. Very clear and engaging.\
I think you need to buy new computers to support such a kind of motion design courses. They crashed all the time\
Great course. More powerful machines are needed for After Effects and Cinema 4D.  Was also disappointed in pre course information. Seems to be a significant step missing between registering, paying and attending. Was sent course materials, but no start time, location, etc.\
Much better than the first one. Clearer and easy to follow.\
Ian delivered the topics at a good pace and was allowed for a comfortable session to take place despite the content being very overwhelming at times.  It would have enhanced my learning if I had some reference materials to support each topic.  This way I would not have to make step by step notes whilst trying to watch what Ian was doing.  \
Very focused on what would be coming in the exam, could be more focused on how within the BUK Learning Academy (Barclays) we would be using the tools and focus specifically on the types of design we would be creating and how to package these accordingly.   \
I found the pace a little slow. I understand that everyone has to be able to keep up, but for me personally, I would have liked more pace. I enjoyed the first two days and found the content really useful. However, on the third day, I found that the focus was all about how to pass the exam. Not everyone on the course was doing the exam and I zoned out a little bit here. I think it would have been good if there was more to involve us because the course is virtual, for example, it would have been good to share screens and allow us to see what other people had done etc.  I think that it would have been good to use this functionality when people were struggling too. There were quite a few instances where people were struggling to do something and it would have been good if Ian had allowed them to share their screen so he could see where they were going wrong.  \
The learning was at a much better place than the last course I attended and when you did fall behind  the instructor was able to pick you back up and solve issues to help me catch back up with the group. \
The course went at a good pace and I felt comfortable asking questions. The course notes workbook is very useful.\
All very good.\
There were no course materials provided except the slides, which were only available via a shared Google drive. For a course costing over \'ac\'a31,000 I would expect a book/manual that covers all information required to pass the exam and that can be referred to in future in the workplace. I felt that the course did not follow a logical structure, which made it more difficult to study for the exam. We would have benefitted from an outline of the order in which research and design tools should be used and as each tool was discussed, showing where it comes within this outline. This issue also wasn\'82\'c4\'f4t helped by some of the slides not being in a very logical order, with some topics covered partly in one part of the presentation and partly later. Rafiq was very personable and you could see that he had a good grasp of the topic himself but a number of times there was confusion amongst the class over certain points that were not explained very clearly. There were also environment problems with the class \'82\'c4\'ec 4 of the 12 students on the course were facing the wall on a separate bank of desks, which didn\'82\'c4\'f4t help with group discussions. There was also a lot of noise from the construction site right outside the window and the windows couldn\'82\'c4\'f4t be closed unless we turned off the small air conditioning unit that involved a window having to be kept open.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
I thought this was a very good course. Unfortunately, this type of learning does not meet my needs, as I am an older person and need more time to practise the excercises. The course has to run at a certain speed and I struggled to keep up. My preferred type of learning is by video clips that I can play repeatedly until I understand what to do.\
Very enjoyable and gave me a good understanding of the types of processes that can be used to make animations. plenty of tips and tricks. Many Thanks \
Prior to the course I had no idea of start times or location. Had to source this information myself. Was also emailed a corrupted PDF that was unusable, sadly.\
We really needed larger screens and more reliable IT - several laptops crashed and their are lots of panels within the software that clutter the screen\
\
\
Great!\
\
\
I did this course 4 years ago and Richard is by far a better instructor than who I had previously. Knowledgable and patient, and explains the basics incredibly well.\
\
Daria is a fantastic tutor and I learned so much more from her during the week. Her knowledge and passion for the subject matter are first class and I would highly recommend her classes. \
\
\
Michael was excellent, making the subject material easier to understand and maintaining interest over the 5 days \
the course is very efficient, the teacher was very professional, I learned a lot of interesting things that would help me in my future career\
I really enjoyed the course. I am very satisfied and the teacher is very amazing and patient. \
\
Great course, great tutor\
There was a lot of information given out in a short amount of time. I was only here for the 3 day course but wish I had been enrolled for the 5 day course. The instructor was very knowledgeable on her subject. The only complaint would be to have more time to working with the program.\
I liked the course a lot, it was very interesting\
\
 I am very satisfied of the content of the course. It was very efficient. \
\
Really lovely teacher. VERY patient, especially as different class members had different levels of ability.\
Imantas is an amazing instructor, I had the pleasure of having a 1 on 1 course with him due to other student's cancellation. He's really didactic, all the examples and exercises were relevant and he really made me think and didn't just throw the content on my lap. 10/10 would recommend!\
Andy was great, I have definitely learned what I wanted to from the course.\
Overall the course has been very enjoyable and interesting.  The only reason for my slightly lower scores is having completed the course I think participants would benefit from a certain level of knowledge of the software and subject matter beforehand.  The course looks at very complex procedures and uses complicated language which some prior knowledge of would help with understanding\
Andy gave clear instructions and went at a good pace. \
\
Receptionist(s) are constantly confused or lack any knowledge about the building or where or how to direct you. Building signage inside and out is also lacking and unclear.\
\
It would have been useful to have some video recording lessons to consult at home.\
The exam was to much swapping windows and loading wasted alot of time. \
\
Room a bit cramped\
\
None \
\
Instructor was super friendly and knowledgeable of the software and was very clear when explaining things.\
\
\
\
\
The Course for myself would be better if it started earlier in the morning through the week.\
Gr8 overall - just provide us with more handouts for homework.\
The course was extremely informative and i look forward to using this software in the future.\
As above.\
Everything was easy to understand. from booking to the actual lesson.  Teacher was very helpful. \
\
Room was quite tight/cosy - was facing away from the trainer.\
The only reason for the lowered rating was on the lack of hard/software management, there are large quantities of pending updates and random add-ons installed on browsers, and random cookies and files left from previous users. This is a potential security risk for both the company and students alike.\
\
All Good\
\
\
\
\
This course was good if you're a complete beginner to After Effects but not if you have some experience.\
\
\
\
\
A quick reference guide would have been useful as there was alot of information to take in.  I was trying to watch the demonstration, make notes and then apply the learning all at the same time, which meant I was potentially missing nformation.  A quick reference guide would have meant that I could watch (and not make notes) - then try myself by referring to the guide.  \
One-to-one virtual course made it very easy to learn. Quite fast paced but I felt I learned a lot.\
Thank you all, everything great\
Excellent teaching from Rich - clear and detailed and ensured a really good understanding of the course ready for the exam. Thank you!\
Rich has the patience of a saint and was a well of knowledge\
\
Excellent teacher and course and i've leart loads\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Sofia made the whole week work under difficult conditions...she was a consummate professional and as such I think got me through a difficult course, especially when the brain was saying 'No More'! Thank you again for all of your help and tuition...I'm hoping I will be able to put it to good use!\
Marek was very kind and professional, made learning a new program very easy and fun!\
Really enjoyed it. Thanks\
Although unexpected, I found the virtual training to be more effective than traditional style (particularly as this course ended up being one-to-one with no other delegates).\
Colleague from work booked the course, so can't leave a proper review, however he didn't complain out it.\
\
\
GREAT INSTRUCTOR\
Ruta was great, she knows what she is talking about. \
\
\
Everything was difficult at first, but applicable in the end. for 3 days.. I'm more then happy with what I learn\
Atrocious Organisation from start to finish...with the poor instructor stuck in the middle! Credit to her positive and adaptive attitude.. Issues - Lack of understanding as to who was on the course, ie time wasted waiting for a delegate. Software issues, delegate told that they didn't need PP software on their machine meant that approximately 2 hours were wasted on the first day Issues with PP and software files not loading properly meant instructor had to improvise lessons. No one with any knowledge of whether or not I am doing an exam at the end of the week, had I not asked, what would have happened?  To reiterate...course good, instruction good...planning and internal communication terrible!\
Course might've been slightly to easy for me but still learned some new bits and pieces. Mainly my own mistake and not the courses.\
Well paced and interesting - very comprehensive and really useful\
Loved the course , Very Informative and was able to ask questions as and when I needed to. I would have preferred a hard copy book instead of a PDF version as I like to make notes but all in all very good \
Good starter looking at a massive subject. Plenty to go away and play with.\
Only issue I had is that it is not made clear when booking parking where to park (there are two car parks) and that you need to bring cash as there is no card facility.\
Overall very good\
\
Pete was very friendly and helpful. Really enjoyed the course!\
\
\
Excellent course covered everything i need to know\
Adrian is a good guy with deep knowledge of his subject. Perhaps he could be a little more forthright when delivering his course to engage the participants. Our group was relatively experienced with Creative Cloud so we could have skipped some of the illustrator-like icon (vector) construction work. But overall I'm very happy, being taught by Adrian for two days was enjoyable and very informative.\
\
Had a great time and really happy about what i've achieved in just 2 days\
Really helpful! Feel like I've covered lots of useful things, will definitely be using this in my job and recommending it to colleagues. Peter was really great, adapted the course well to what i needed. \
\
\
Great course learnt lots to fill my knowledge will be of benefit to my job\
Course notes were issued too late Unable to book parking \
Tony is a great teacher :)\
\
Tony is a great instructor and keeps it interesting and flows well. \
Comprehensive and well paced training - thank you!\
Lots of email chasing with admin and new address requested but not provided - had to google\
A very useful course that will give me new skills for future projects.\
\
Brilliant course and instructor, found the course extremely helpful and insighting\
\
I quickly got back into the swing of using After Effects even though I'd not used it for a while. The tutor was informative and patient. The learning ran at a comfortable pace.\
Excellent tutor, knows his stuff and was very competent.\
Hardware: PC wasn't powerful enough (programs kept crashing and was slow to load application) this resulted in me falling behind in parts.)  \
Pre-course information provided the Friday before we attended the course on Monday - ideally would be given more time to read.\
\
The training was very helpful and thorough, and the instructor was very skilled and informative. It was great that the sessions were tailored to our needs so that we could focus on more specific tool which would be useful to us. \
Technology setup was great, but room was a bit noisy making it difficult to hear the instructor\
\
\
Didn't book it myself\
\
\
\
All great, except some initial problems with the remote connection. Enjoyable and really useful, thank you.\
\
Very good course and worthwhile. have learnt a lot over the 2 days\
\
The training so far has been very informative and the trainer has in-depth knowledge of the subject.\
I'm not sure which course content you are referring to. I didn't receive any course content, nor did Adrian refer us to any content or job aides. It's difficult to take notes and complete practical activities at the same time. Context was missing for me during the course. We covered 'how' to do something without really understanding 'why' we would do it. The course seemed very unstructured, which is not ideal for my learning style.\
\
This course was disappointing, on day one the audio was shocking and we had to create our own adobe class and have the instructor attend this for the audio to improve. Then we asked about materials and nothing was provided, so we had no materials to make notes on or follow instruction with, making it hard to keep on track. The instructor clearly had knowledge of the software, however would just click and not 'talk' through what was clicked, again making it hard to take notes and stay on track. Thankfully I enjoy clicking and seeing what happens, so was able to create my our simulation without any direction.\
\
\
Really helpful tutor\
excellent\
\
\
Loved it again thank you! Learnt a lot :)\
The course wasnt what i expected but was very useful.\
This is my 2nd time on this course re certifying, excellent kit, excellent tutor, i would highiy recommend Academy class everytime \
\
after effect needs more -days and time most do the course more than one week\
Pad provided but maybe some leave-behind materials would be useful\
Just need faster macs. Other than that, exactly what was needed. \
There were no course materials. We did way too much in the three days and the pace was way to quick for me. I had no time to write down notes.  Dom really knows his stuff but I found it very hard to follow him.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
IVE LEARN A LOT ! THANK YOU SO MUCH\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Thoroughly enjoyed the course, would love to take further courses if allowed. \
\
The best course I've ever been on! Will save my company so much time and money \
The demonstration screens could be be clearer.  Toggling between screens during the exam wastes time and can be a bit glitchy Booking process was fast however communication about dates was disappointing having been told it was cancelled initially and a second course booked later on has also been cancelled having been told this was a rare occurrence. Post training information will this be provided at some point? Tutor was great very knowledgable!\
The building maintenance and outside construction works were disturbing the class at times which made it difficult to focus.\
WHEN BOOKED, IT SAID THAT LUNCH WOULD BE PROVIDED, HOWEVER, THIS WAS NOT THE CASE.\
Really good teaching and I now have a much better understanding of autocad\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The teacher was amazing, I have learnt a lot form his experience and competences regarding UX design, thanks his teaching I am now able to prepare my career in UX design. On the other side the quality of the facilities and material provided were quite poor, the room was not big enough for the type of course we did, the internet was not working well during all the week and this compromise our final prototyping results. Another sad point was the 'book' provided, just an amount of photocopied slides where each pages were totally disconnected making the preparation for the exam much harder (I was expecting a proper book to be honest, a book where we could studied properly), I prepared for the exam searching online external resources.\
Geddy has the patience of a saint. At times he did go a bit fast but apart from that he was perfect!\
\
Great teacher\
I really enjoyed the course.  The only aspect I wasn't too happy with was the lack of information beforehand for the course (I hadn't received information until a few days before) and the room - it was far too hot and really cramped with chairs.\
\
Course content and instructor very good, however i didn't recieve any pre-course material only instructions on how to get to the venue\
Brilliant course. Ian made it interesting and easy to understand. \
Incredibly comprehensive and great structure to the course\
Ian was very knowledgeable and clear - we got through a lot in the 2 days and it never felt overwhelming. \
\
WENT IN KNOWING NOTHING AND CAME OUT AN EXPERT!! \
Super great teacher.\
Marek was friendly, patient and helpful! A great teacher!\
The trainer, Joe Neill had a great depth of commercial / industry experience developing Captivate courses.  Facilities were very good.  \
\
Had a really great week. Thank you very much and thank you to Tim for making it such an enjoyable and productive experience.\
Very enjoyable course with a lovely, knowledgable and smart instructor.\
\
\
Pros: - The tutor was fantastic.   Cons: - Poor/no internet - Small room - Not enough wall space for exploration \
Same Size Second Screen Would Be Beneficial\
\
\
Really informative course and much more likely to remember aspects of it having worked it through at the time. Tony was engaging and friendly throughout.\
\
We had more exercises in day 2 but felt day 1 could have  been more activity based. It would have been good to have more dialogue between the participants as I felt many became distant. Overall, some good activities and a reasonable amount of activities to help cement the learning.\
I feel Gedi went a little too quick and used too much jargon specific to the product. I know an outline to be an outline, not a stroke etc. and I found that he was pretty quick, there's no doubting his knowledge on the product and his ability to navigate with his eyes closed but I'm not sure his training style was the best. on more than one occasion he shows us multiple ways to access and use the same element of InDesign which made things a little confusing... just show us one, it's easier.\
The course give me insight into InDesign, but I struggled to correlate the practicality of the exercises with work I would normally undertake.   \
Very informative, i started from a very low knowledge base and took on a lot in a short period of time. The workbook could have been more detailed as i like referring to them after training events and i felt there were some really interesting and useful parts of the course which weren't covered in the workbook. I would have like more structured development time building documents, as it was the main time we had to work on files we were doing what we wanted. I know it is difficult as there is a lot to get through in a very short space of time and the facilitator did well to get as much across as he did.\
This course was very helpful and covered everything that I wanted to know. Tim went that extra mile to give a few workarounds for things not usually covered in the course which was very helpful.   \
More practical activities\
Thank you Tim \
\
\
I absolutely loved it\
\
\
\
Severino was great, very patient and very knowledgeable . Sadly I cannot score the session higher due to the following reasons:-  The tutor was not here and I know that was due to sickness but it felt very impersonal. There was no manual -- we had to email it to ourselves. It would of been good to have one to hand and write notes on whilst we were practicing as I know I will forget going along from the TIPS Severino explained.  Severino was unsure of the aftercare was I will need to look into this.  \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Tim Was great and answered all my questions and doubts regardless of how far fetched they were!\
\
\
\
\
A bit expensive, but overall worth it!\
my only complaint is we were asked to be here 15 minutes early for registration on the first day just to sign a piece of paper. Also, things kept going wrong on the first day, we started late and then kept being delayed by faults with the system. I also think there should be a recycling bin as you are using plastic and paper cups. \
Excellent course! It is what it says and actually help me learn more than I expected to do so!\
VERY GOOD COURSE AND I REALLY INTERESTED  AND VERY USEFUL AND HAD NOT ANY IDEA ABOUT REVIT BEFFOR THIS COURSE AND NOW I CAN USE REVIT IN MY DESIGN  SO LOVELY TEACHER AND STAFF SO HELPFUL  I RECOMEND THIS COURSE IN ACADEMY CLASS \
\
Interesting that I was able to learn new things in the refresher (different instructor from the first time round)\
The only thing I always think about these trainings is that it would be good to get half an hour at the end to work on similar projects to the training we've been doing with an instruction of the outcome required...but letting us work it through ourselves (only asking for help when we are stuck). Its far better to retain indo when you aren't being told exactly what to do all the time.\
\
Excellent trainer, friendly and helpful and went at a pace that was in line with my previous experience.\
\
Tim was great and easy to understand. Learned everything quite well.\
\
\
all fine except my booking process was through work and didnt have updated details of adress. course content on day 2 definately benefited my work more but day 1 was interesting as well. Teacher knew his stuff!\
\
\
\
Less abstract examples More participation and repeating explanations  Maybe look at websites people use daily and investigate the code that way Slower pace sometimes might help  \
\
Brilliant! Really enjoyed the course and Tony is a fab teacher :)\
\
Another thoroughly expansive knowledge gained by a very good tutorial, Brilliant and amazing course. One to one training is much better but not always achievable Plus loving the new Location!\
Really enjoyable course and tim was a fantastic teacher and really knows Indesign well so have learnt a lot. Thanks again to AC and Tim. Great course.\
Imantus is a good teacher and made the course relaxed and enjoyable, the structure was well laid out and in 5 days I achieved many of the things I wanted to.  As it is such a large application with so many outcomes it is difficult to be able to find solutions to all the problems one may encounter and he did not always have the answers but solved many issues. \
I do feel honestly it could alittle longer in terms of hours in the day, 9:30 - 4:30 is short for such an extensive software (Unity).  \
\
\
Although everything about my instructor was great, I was expecting to have the intermediate level done at the bespoke course. This has nothing to do with my instructor as she was extremely helpful and knowledged, but the 18 hours isn't enough and I feel kind of disappointed as I was so eager so fully learn the intermediate level without having to skips some stuff.\
Tim was a great trainer and was very clear throughout which made a technical piece of software easy to understand. (from someone who has already had InDesign training before). Tim would always take time to go over anything that someone may have found difficult. \
Venue while easy to find feels a bit work in progress, in need of a lick of paint and not exactly an inspiring environment.  No screens or music for atmosphere. The intermittent wifi was a bit frustrating.  Tim managed any hitches brilliantly.  Lovely peppermint tea and thoughtful inclusion of biscuits.    Love a digital feedback form - hurrah. \
Tim was great, very patient and a great teaching skills. Course and the projects were fun too.  The venue could be designed more for learning, i.e. brighter, cooler, better drinks and snacks, signage. \
Great instructor\
Excellent course - Tim is very well versed on InDesign. \
Enjoyable course and a great reintroduction to HTML. Jogged my memory and also introduced me to a lot of new things. I will say it's a lot to take in over a single day, I think even the 121 sessions could benefit from being split across two days,\
The Course was very good, and the Instructor is great.\
\
The course was great.\
\
Surprised that the content is exactly the same as the after effects course that I took last year. Would have been useful to have been informed about this as I would have skipped.\
Am only on day two of the course so its really hard to tell if it has met my objections - would rather give feedback at the end. \
Equipment was the problem. Slow computers, software crashes, internet connection patchy. Apart from that everything was great.\
\
\
It was very apparent that the course has recently moved premises. There were computers in the training room but they were't set up for our needs so in the end just took up desk space and got in the way of us seeing each other. This was quite disappointing along with there being no internet access that worked in the training room, one person ended up using all of their personal data allowance on their phone during the course. Access to the room was also difficult, to get in and out Rafiq had to shuffle in so we could shimmy past him which was a huge fire hazard.  Rafiq was great and we finally found the courses correct pace on Thursday. He was very knowledgeable in the field and gave us a great overview of the whole UX process. It seemed he hadn't taught the course before and didn't see what the exam was like until the end of the week which caused us some worry. Our questions of its structure couldn't be answered until late in the week when he'd seen it, and then could put together a practice question. He taught the syllabus but it came across that was the first time he had taught that particular course.  In terms of location it worked well for me and there was a variety of shops/restaurants to go to for lunch which was great. The range of different people who attending the course was also very good, good to have diversity in skill set I'd say we learnt a lot of each other's different perspectives.  What was really good is it came across that Rafiq genuinely cared that we not only take in the subject matter for the exam but learn and practice it so we can put it to use in the real world.\
\
\
\
\
\
The classroom wasn't really in a position to function as a classroom yet. No wi-fi, poor layout etc. Rafiq was a very knowledgeable instructor but there was a lot to be covered in the syllabus in a short space of time.  The practicals, esp. the affinity diagramming could have been more focused (e.g. just pick a few of the stickies instead of all) which would have left more time for other, shorter practicals during the last couple of days.\
Room not suitable for use. Poor internet connection\
I felt that the instructor had really good knowledge in this area, however I felt that BCS wasn't clear enough with him about the testing process / what would be contained on the test and the shape of the test. I feel like I have a good understand of the practical application of user research and ux design, but there were some questions on the test that I didn't feel prepared for.\
EXCELLENT COURSE AND ACHIEVED ALL MY OBJECTIVES WAS NOT ADVISED ABOUT TWO SCREENS OR THAT THE EXAM AT THE END COULD NOT BE DONE VIRTUALLY\
Yet again I had a fantastic experience learning from Ian. Great pacing, friendly and approachable, comfortable atmosphere and I couldn't believe how much I have learned. He also gave me great advice regarding my career aspirations and tailored the course to fit my personal learning outcomes.\
Good day of training, we used one of our brochures to reproduce in Indesign, which was very useful.\
The course was presented well and was very informative.\
Not aware that we needed two screens and no pre course check on set up which delayed the start on a couple of days. Otherwise excellent. It support on hand and very helpful \
The training room would benefit from some proper cooling, but that did not effect the way that the training was delivered.  The park and cafes over the road are great for lunch, the course was a great experience.\
none\
\
\
Would definitely look at rearrange the classrooms as it's currently difficult to see the instructor, whiteboard and etc.\
\
\
I am very satisfied with this course and can't believe how much  have learned over only two days. The instructor was very easy to understand with a really good pace and was very approachable and knowledgable.\
\
we couldn't complete the exam due to the wifi being down! an inconvenience as we will have to take a days unpaid and get to London for the exam. Waiting to hear back from academy class re new scheduled date and travel costs etc  Ruta again was a fab teacher; would highly recommend her! \
Ruta was a great, informative and very patient teacher \
Only problem was not being able to take the test at the end.\
Ian was very helpful and knowable regarding the subject area. Apart from the initial hiccups regarding the booking, the course was very well structured and organised. \
\
\
\
The machines were very slow and clunky and the programme would crash several times but we managed to get everything completed.\
I would've liked to have an initial summary of the content of the Course and perhaps some instructions in written to follow the actions more easily. \
The course was great and a learnt a lot. It would however be helpful to have worksheets or printed instructions rather than taking notes.\
Bit too fast sometimes, couldn't always keep up Written notes would be helpful\
Frustratingly, there was drilling outside often so I felt like I had a headache and it was hard to concentrate. Ruta was a fantastic teacher, but the internet was down and we couldn't take the test, so it we will have to come back another time, which is difficult with work.\
Thoroughly enjoyed the course. Learned exactly what I needed to learn.   Thanks  Mark\
following the end of the course, the feeling is that the course is short and should provide more information in these three days. \
Great course and teaching. Unfortunately very noisy building works outside facility and no sound protection. \
The building was half finished and there were no refreshments. There was very noisy works outside the building throughout the course which gave me a headache. the room was very stuffy and airless. Our instructor, Ruta, was brilliant. We rushed through quite a lot though and I felt my experience was not the same as others as I had never used CAD before, but no one asked and we were all different levels. There were limited refreshments and not many toilet facilities. If it weren't for the instructor, I would probably look elsewhere for training next time.\
\
Would have been good to have the laptops 100% ready with software logged in to applicable program e.g adobe cloud before session. Also more powerful machines as the session slowed and had to wait for those who's machine couldn't keep up/crashed!\
Sofia is really engaging and obviously knows her stuff- was surprised about ow much we got through especially as im a complete novice in after effects. \
Great class!\
Instructor was very clear and engaging. \
\
Great course to improve my After Effects skills. Looking forward to the next step in the course! \
Really happy with what I have learnt so far, it has been challenging but Sophia has been really helpful and is more that happy to go over any topics again. \
\
Michael was very approachable and was a good teacher.\
I was not made aware at the time of booking that I would have to travel to a test centre to complete a test at the end of the 3 day course. I chose to do this course virtually due to inability to travel, so this was a little disappointing that I could not take the exam virtually. Due to this, I could not take the exam.\
Thank you, had a very enjoyable three days and can confidently go back to my role and use all my skills I have development following my course.\
\
Good teacher, explained at good pace that was easy to keep up with. Asked if there was anything specific we needed to learn.  \
Very good to have hands on learning, as it's very difficult trying to learn elsewhere or online.\
I highly recommend this course to my friends/colleagues who wants to learn the basic of illustrator. Tony was great!!!\
Dated venue\
\
\
\
\
\
Ian was a great tutor and made the learning experience both valuable and enjoyable.\
Brilliant training. Ian is a great communicator and asked us from start to finish what we needed and what would be most helpful to get out of the training. Would recommend to anyone needing a crash course in InDesign.\
I did the combined 101 and 201 and so this is following on from the first 3 days, Ben has provided a continuity in learning the software. Aside from showing us how to use the tools and function on the software, Ben also showed us why and in what real life situations we could apply the tools / technique due to his very rich industry experience, which is very important in learning an industry standard software.  The only issue with the course is that the computers are not really fit for purpose for such a graphic intensive software:   1. They are rather slow 2. They screen is rather small  Also, a lot of people in the industry in fact use a Mac so it could have been a nicer experience to do this course on a Mac.    In addition, we didn't have the full software installed - it's missing the Content Library and the Show Help guide, which has left a dent in the experience. We have found a way around not using the Content Library and that didn't affect our learning as such but it would have been much nicer if we had the full software so we could have a play with some of the interesting effects Ben has shown us.\
We needed better equipment that are fully equipped for cinema 4D. My laptop had no preset and was missing plugins.  \
This was a great intro to Captivate and Ian was a superb trainer - he was relaxed and explained everything fully, happy to go back and repeat any stages that I was unsure of, and generally tailored his speed to mine. The material provided for the training was appropriate and clearly identified, but I found the manual to be difficult to navigate. \
Thank you for a awesome week, absolutely loved Chakib's style of teaching and great industry relevant advice. I also loved his vision of UX/UI. Loved the process \
We had a very knowledgable instructor CHAQIB.  Would have loved to spend more time on this course.   Course certification is a mystery, no one knows anything about it and the fact I would have to travel again to do the exam is not great\
I highly recommend this lesson, it was informative and covered many modeling aspects but at the same time very enjoyable. If they can upgrade the laptop to better spec/mac, I think the course would be more enjoyable. And content browser would be nice! Thank you.\
\
A lot of practical application which is good to experience it, but i think more theory around the different methods and examples / Templates would have been useful. Also i would suggest having a printed manual or book that can be used to highlight sections that are relevant post event. In previous courses, at a lower cost, books have been handed out about the subject. I would recommend this approach as it would be helpful as a takeaway.   The instructor was very knowledgeable about the topics covered and you had confidence in him. However at times discussions were off topic and it was a little frustrating when you are here to learn. Lovely guy though. \
Supplied PC's not always able to run some of the more intensive elements\
As a complete beginner to InDesign I found the vast amount of information squeezed into 2 days quite challenging. Technically, it was 1 day of learning as the second day we were asked to design a leaflet. I found it difficult to keep up as I had to observe the teacher's screen, follow the instructions on my computer and try to write down notes simultaneously. The pace was too fast and would have been better if the course was held over a minimum of 3 days. The instructor provided some very useful industry tips but I don't believe it's very good value for money overall. \
Fantastic Course and great instructor. Felt I have gained a really good understanding in a couple of days. Bit of confusion about the start date of the course and now when it will be completed, but in fairness this has been due to a tutors unforeseen illness. Would thoroughly recommend.\
The course was very helpful but quite intense as there was quite a lot of material to cover in just 3 days. I was expecting to allow more time to complete each task.  The tutor was very knowledgeable and was trying his best to answer all our questions.\
The course could be an hour longer each day, e.g. 9-5 with 1 hour lunch break. A course who's hours are less than standard working hours feels like poor value. \
It is a very useful BIM/ Revit  introduction to a beginner. Now I know the the basic concept about Revit/BIM.\
Great course, great instructor. Very patient.\
The course was generally good, some written notes would have been useful in order to add personal comments on top rather than an empty book. The room was a bit hot also\
\
\
\
Really good course.  Ben didn't rush us through the content and gave us time to get our heads around the exercises. There where 6 people in the class which seemed to be the right size as all where able to ask questions . Ben was very natural and didn't talk down to anyone in the class.\
Thank you so much! it was very helpful and eye opening. The instructions were clear and straight to the point. And the instructor would always repeat and give us feedback. loved it!!!\
Ben is very knowledgeable with the software and is a very engaging teacher making the learning experience very interesting.   C4D is a pretty difficult to learn by nature but Ben has made it as easy as possible by breaking down the tools and methods.  I am now feeling much more confident in using the software and feel able to support our students in my day job.    \
I highly recommend to my friends and colleagues. Instructor was very helpful and I really enjoyed the class. I took same level last year but this time he covered wider topics and more in depth. I could learn and digest the software knowledge much better. Will keep on learning after this class. Thank you!\
I wish i took this course earlier in my life :)  everything was straight forward and perfect :) \
\
What I was disappointed with was the following; no intro of the trainer bacground of who he is and his background  No introductions In the room or the person dialing in didn't ask us what we wanted from the course  no Housekeeping  no outline of course of what will be covered no structure of timings of the day  No manual until end of day one and I had to chase it   The trainer knows his content - however his delivery style could be improved  - he didn't really ask if we had questions, wasn't really noticing if we were struggling. only when we were stopping then he stopped.   The course gave me an overview but I was somewhat disappointed that the actual opening of the course let him down.  he wasn't really engaging in us only if we had issues there was no real structure.  We had to keep asking what else is being covered - it was only because I printed it out before I came to the course I was checking what was being covered.   It was only till the end of the course he asked for questions and we could save our files to take back - which he should have mentioned at the start of the day. \
Good course.  Well paced.  Knowledgeable trainer.  I didn't like the trainer writing / demonstrating on Photoshop - this should have been a power point.   \
\
The Captivate course was well designed and the instructor Iain was knowledgable.   \
A few technical issues with the audio and connectivity - not Ian's fault though. The course moved quickly and covered a great deal in the 2 days, a good starter for those new to Captivate.\
I DID STRUGGLE TO KEEP UP WITH SOME OF THE TASKS. BUT I FEEL I RECEIVED A GOOD OVERALL LESSON\
This Course has allowed me to navigate around indesign more confidently and i have also a lot of transferable skills for my job \
Thank you for all your help, I now feel confident when using InDesign and I look forward to putting it into practice at work\
Great course with an very knowledgeable instructor!! :)\
Room too small, facilities a bit too old, however easy to get too.  Also, may be worth making clear signage inside the building where the reception is.  Apart from that, great experience, and great value for price.\
\
\
Everything was excellent. Instructor was exceptional\
\
\
\
\
brilliant and really in depth course with a fantastic tutor who explained everything so clearly that we were able to look at things that weren't included in the course but specific to my own project as well.\
Again, the computers let everything down. Very slow, half the programs didn't work. Machine needs to be much newer and more powerful to really get the most out of learning animation.\
I felt time spent creating assets for projects and exercises could have been better spent using ready made/supplied content to allow more focused learning on the actual application within the software.  We lost some time due to licensing issues but luckily made up the time.\
Would have liked to have had some takeaway materials either hard or soft copy as a reminder, to use latter.\
Great teacher\
\
\
\
The course met my expectations.  Any criticisms apply to my own abilities and experience rather than the trainer or course content. I now have a much better idea of the capabilities of Photoshop and go out to develop and build on what I have learned. The very small class sizes make for an ideal learning facility.\
Enjoyed the course and learnt some good skills. Was a bit easier as I already had a knowledge of Adobe programs. \
Great crash course and a lot of information in a small timescale. Lots for us to practise to fully understand\
Very good, not to much information thrown at you. \
Computers run slow,\
\
Adrian was an effective, helpful and attentive tutor  The admin was extremely poor and irritating\
Some time was spent, on occasion within some learning sections, creating assets for After Effects using additional software. The time spent creating these assets could have been better spent within After Effects itself. The assets could be pre prepared for the class allowing those wanting to spend more time in the software the opportunity to do so.  I would also suggest some software/machine maintenance to allow all required softwares to run at the same time without crashing/freezing.\
Not enough time to complete exercises. 30 mins, could have been an hour.\
Computers are very slow... sometimes made it not worth attempting to do certain exercises. Mine was one of the better one by all counts. The room was also a little shoddy... but thats by the by.\
The teacher was amazing, very helpful, he went out of his way to teach us everything we wanted to know. however the computers provided were extremely slow and multiple people lost work due to crashes.\
the course was great, I have learned a lot about cinema 4D and became more confident and comfortable with using the software.\
Everything has been great, from the email exchange before booking the course to the course it self \
Small point. The emails state the course starts at 9am but actually they start at 9:30. This causes unnecessary stress as I'm sitting there waiting for half an hour worried that the course has started without me and my connection has failed for some reason.\
Ian is a fantastic facilitator.  His knowledge of the subject is exemplary.  He was clear with his instructions and kept a good pace (to cater for everyone's needs).  I feel more confident from attending the course and will look to extend my skills with the next level of training in future (with Ian's tuition!).\
Quite a lot of the course was above my head but I leave with a lot more to work at.\
The course was enjoyable, however I found that it did not meet my personal objectives and the teaching method was a little distant. It would have been nice to have an instructor in the classroom.\
Mostly same as my last questionnaire for the comment boxes\
good\
It would be nice to get more printed info, like a guide, to help to study at home\
I would have liked to have had a pre-read before the course to assist with learning throughout the week. This would have meant that I could have made less notes and had time to try the skills that were being taught as the week goes on. And a list if what was going to be on the exam at the start of the week would have been use full so I could revise throughout the week and not just cram everything into one evening before the exam.\
It would be much more beneficial if course content information was provided as pre-course material as opposed to post. No every individual hails from a graphic or web design arena and may unfamiliar from the beginning. \
\
\
\
AN EXCELLENT INSTRUCTOR WHO EXPLAINED THE COMMANDS AND APPLICATION VERY WELL.\
i HAVE BEEN EXTREMELY IMPRESSED WITH MY TUTORS ABILITY TO TEACH IN ANOTHER LANGUAGE.  EVERYTHING WAS CLEAR AND EVERY QUESTION I HAD WAS ANSWERED.\
\
Poor delivery of training very little opportunity to practice what had been demonstrated to us by the trainer before we moved onto another subject, it appears there isnt enough time allocated to this course to allow this to happen.  adults learn by the model of Explanation, Demonstration, Imitation, Practice..this was not the delivery style..as i have discussed above  no course handouts to facilitate learning for different learning styles, no precourse information, reluctance from staff to provide materials.  it is pointless providing handouts at the end of a course via email that are clearly designed to be provided to students for their use during a course\
\
\
\
\
Had a bit of trouble with some things not booting up properly on the laptop (Atom PlugIns) but we got around the issue in under 10 mins, just so you know FYI :-)\
\
Bloody great, thank you!\
Good bespoke course that focussed on the common issues we come up against on a day-to-day basis, with the ability to ask related questions \
a pre read would have been helpful so that you had an idea prior to the course of techniques you would be using ie a glossary of terms etc  handouts during the course would be helpful as not everyone learns in a visual way.  and it is then difficult to replicate again what has been shown to you - whereas with step by step guide the student can practice.  the student has to learn in the way the course is taught...the course is not taught to accomodate the different learning styles. the learning model of EDIP is only slightly used...there is explanation and demonstration but little time to imitate and then no time to practice  the learning environment isnt ideal - noisy outside space..windows need to be opened to allow for aircon, but then its difficult to hear the course leader. Little introduction at the beginning of the course - no directions for toilets/fire escapes/ format of the course/needs & expectations - Maslow and Gesthalt theory......\
A pre-read would have been very helpful to get to know some of the basic details of photoshop. Also a handout on how to complete some of the techniques taught to aid in revision before the exam on the last day. A plan of how the week is planned out would have also been useful to know what subjects would be covered day to day. \
Thoroughly enjoyable. Trainer clearly knows his subject matter and puts it across very eloquently. Resources are top notch and training environment is ideal. \
\
\
Richard explains things in a very calm way! Easy to understand and keeps going back to refresh your memory. Practice makes perfect!\
Very good pace and clear instructions. Explained parts that I didn't understand \
Very good pace and clear instructions. Explained parts that I didn't understand \
Great trainning teacher is explaining really well. take time for the studdents\
\
Ian was fabulous and really help settle us into the subject matter. The remote aspect worked really well and Ian was able to keep me engaged in the content and follow my ability to meet the requirements throughout. Great experience - thank you!\
I didn't get the pre-course joining instructions, so would've appreciated them ahead of time.\
\
Huge thank you to Ian.  The course was invaluable and was exactly at the level I required. Ian is very knowledgeable and answered all questions well.  Thanks again. \
\
\
The Venue is way below what we are used to \
\
all good so far. Looking forward to attempting some tomorrow remotely\
Trainer excellent and very knowlegable, I just need a bit of consolidation exercise to practice new skills.  Some issues with pre course, receiving joining instructions etc but course was good.\
\
It would have been good to go more over the basic setup of the program at the start, e.g. what each tab contained/where everything was etc. We went through quite a bit about actual filming and camera/computer specs which wasn't really relevant to me as I'm just using the videos provided to me, so I found this a bit confusing personally.\
\
No further comments. Everything was exactly as I expected it.\
\
\
Really enjoyable course, learnt everything I needed to know and the instructor was fantastic\
great course with a great instructor\
Overall a well thought out course and well planned and executed. I would have liked to have spent more time on animation and a brief introduction into rigging if more time was available but not the the sacrifice of the other parts of the course which were useful/important to be aware of and have experience with.\
\
Overall very happy with the course and the instructor.\
Great trainer - extremely knowledgable about the subject.\
Mark was a very good trainer and was very full of knowledge.\
Mark was amazing! He is very experienced and you can tell and he seems to be just so naturally good at teaching. It was a pleasure to take the course and I have learnt a lot! will definitely be back! \
Really good course, Mark clearly is a an Adobe genius\
Mark was a great instructor, he was very thorough, clear and concise. I got a lot out of this course and feel very confident in using InDesign now.\
\
Haleema was absolutely fantastic in teaching us. She explained things very well and was very open to us asking questions . She tailored the course to our needs and I would definitely recommend her to others\
\
I think handouts would have been a good addition. Slides to take away so you have a visual representation of what you are doing when practising.\
Sofia was extremely helpful and the course has gave me a great understanding of indesign which will be extremely useful for my job.\
Very pleased with the course so far and what we have learnt - Sofia is a great teacher and very patient. Looking forward to the next few days of the course!\
N/a\
The trainer was excellent, written course materials could be provided to students to follow through. The location is great but the building horrible- construction and disrepair. Having said that the technology provided is top notch especially the follow on instructor screen\
Mark was great and really enjoyable to learn from.\
The course was great, very practical, especially on day two when we made our own brochures from scratch. I felt it helped me to learn the skills I needed.   The only criticism I would have is the venue is not great, next to a busy building site which can be distracting. \
Mark Gatter is an exceptional teacher; very knowledgable of InDesign making the two days very worthwhile.\
The course was very well delivered, Mark was fantastic giving plenty of information and industry based example. \
Really good course, will be very helpful\
\
This was a very useful course, Mark knew what he was talking about and was very informative and helpful. \
\
\
Haleema Malik was an excellent teacher and helped were we was stuck on certain things on Auto Cad, very knowledgeable and helpful. \
I was expecting there to be a plan for how the day should go, but there didn't seem to be\
great course - very in depth and fab instructor - adapted to my ability really well so that when I understood something we moved on which meant I got more out of the course than i expected.  \
I was not personally involved in booking or reg. Enjoyable course. Very nice teacher who was keen, clear, knowledgeable. Exercises were good. Could have had even more to work through! Facilities were fine. Room was a bit noisy due to air con. \
OVERALL CONTENT OF THE COURSE WAS VERY GOOD. INSTRUCTOR WAS VERY FRIENDLY AND KNOWLEDGEBLE.\
Haleem Malik was really helpful, understanding of our differing levels of ability and patient. \
Haleema Malik the tutor was very good and helpful and made understanding the course  easy\
\
Good open structure, great trainer. Building/offices not very inspiring.\
\
The only issues for me were that i would have liked the course materials printed out for me  i would have liked all the exercises to be printed out in the order that we would be doing them. i thought Sev was brilliant, very patient and resourceful and answered all the questions and even some he didn't know he knew how to find the answer and help me through the issue.l  i wish that the room was better laid out so my colleagues and i could have sat all together instead of one of them far away in the corner. however as this was a last minute change because the centre thought we were using macs which specifically said at the booking stage that we were all windows users.   the technician was pretty cool in setting up the pC windows for us in a separate room! good job! \
I like being able to use some pre-made assets to learn the concepts.\
\
\
PC upgrades during course slowed learning down - more ram needed in PC\
\
\
\
\
\
I \
\
\
The green 201 belt was a great course form which I learnt a lot. Mark was a great tutor helping and going through the course patiently/\
A very good course drawing on the techniques we learned on the beginner course in more detail. Mark had a great depth of knowledge and answered any questions we had easily and explained in a very coherent way. Would recommend.\
\
\
\
\
\
Too early to answer most questions, guessing . . \
ENJOYABLE CONTENT, BARRY ADAPTED HIS TEACHING METHODS TO SUIT ALL OF OUR NEEDS\
There were no course materials or supporting manuals to my knowledge, so I didn't score that question. A reference guide would have been nice but did not detract from the course, which was a custom event. Adrian was patient with us, explained things clearly, gave us chance to practice, ask and do all the things we wanted to do and learn. He managed the time well and made sure we covered everything we wanted, and more\
Had some issues with the Imac. Would like a second monitor. Track balls would be ask too much:)...\
\
\
\
\
WOULD BE GOOD TO HAVE A BOOK, BOOKLET WITH THE TOPICS WE ARE SEEING IN CLASS IN AN ORDERED MANNER SO WE CAN REPEAT AND REVIEW THE EXERCISES AT HOME ON OUR OWN TIME, NOT ONLY RELY ON OUR NOTES. GOOD THAT A NOTEBOOK AND PEN WERE PROVIDED.\
The booking was not very clear in regard to cancellations.\
\
Marius was an excellent teacher who explained the interface and the thinking behind the software in a very clear, interesting and amusing way. I feel I have learnt a great amount in a short period of time and I am ready to expand my knowledge with tutorials and by practice now.\
\
\
\
Great tutor, terrible IT system for purpose. I did aftereffects training.\
Needs faster laptops. Need to make sure all auto updates / installations don't happen in course time.\
Instructor was great - answered all questions, clear in instructions It's just a shame the equipment (computers/hardward) Couldn't keep up with the students. A lot of crashing of After Effects \
\
In a previous course, I did the group was larger and involved a delegate over skype, this made it more difficult to keep up or move at a steady pace because of the number of people in the room plus someone working remotely. This weeks course was just me and one other delegate and this worked SO much better. Also, we are on Mac's this time and that is much more effective. The PCs we used last time was an absolute disaster, constantly crashing and making it essentially impossible to do anything useful.\
\
Mark knew exactly what he was talking about and shared a range of experiences as well as teaching us the functionalities of all the Photoshop tools. Would definitely recommend his training. \
Mark was really helpful - giving us over and aboard course materials \
A very good course albeit very fast paced \
\
\
\
\
Super useful course, really helpful all the way through. \
The training was a great introduction to Sketch UP and how to use effectively with my limited knowledge.\
Gianfrancesco was great! Really friendly, helpful and patient.\
Refer to Administration.\
Brilliant classes, high learning curve from pace of tutoring\
\
difficult to complete all in one week.\
\
Made it very easy for me to pick it up from being a novice - excellent tutor\
A really great course with an instructor who has a lot of patience. The class group was small (four of us including myself) so we were really able to get effective one-on-one help. I feel so much more confident in Illustrator now and feel like with application I will be able to further my skills on my own. \
Geddy covered all the subject areas well in the short amount of time we had. The practical exercises were also great at quickly demonstrating how you can create something quite complex in the easiest possible way. \
\
I think having a virtual along with the current class generated some delays \
May well come again. Time permitting\
I have learned a lot in this course Simon is and excellent teacher\
Very helpful\
Well conducted throughout.\
\
\
\
\
\
Had been looking to do the course for a while and it was difficult to get a response\
\
\
Excellent teacher\
\
Could of been better as a separate course to the the beginners course, an intermediate course is usually all experienced users, so at times quite slow doing basic tasks.   Some of the more complex tasks are then too much information for the beginners course.\
I did not book this course for myself but I only received confirmation once I had chased for this; this however did not include the course information pack, which I am yet to receive. \
Great teacher with plenty of experience and the ability to explain complex questions.\
I'm pleased overall with the way the course has been conducted.\
Practical exam would reinforce the information gained on the course.\
\
A very comprehensive, informative and enjoyable course\
\
Make starting using Revit very easy transition for me \
EXCELLENT, \
\
\
\
\
I have done 7 Academy Class courses face-to-face in Glasgow, they were all challenging to good, the last PSD one was enjoyable. This virtual course was a 2-day MISERY, rising occasionally to 'below OK' level. I do not blame this even 50% on Domenico, though he set a fast pace. The main problem was I could not keep up, so I spent two miserable days always 15-30 minutes behind the class. As I had spent a few days practising P Pro before, I thought it would go well. The main problem was that I could not see where and how Dom was selecting tools/methods, I would still be finishing the previous task when I saw he'd done something new, then I didn't know how to do it, sometimes I asked how, but I felt I was holding back the class. However, as a Virtual Student, I felt like a Third-Class citizen compared to the attendees in London NB Third-Class, not just Second-class. Although OK on the first day, there was a bad time-lag on Dom's screen refreshing on my screen throughout the second day, meaning that he'd describe a sequence of moves, say 'Did you see that?' and I was still looking at the static first screen, then some steps would jerkily appear \'82\'c4\'ec it was almost hopeless.\
Geddy was very patient with everyone and I feel like I've learnt some really good basic skills. Excited to learn some more in the next few days!\
\
The course was very thorough and more than what i expected to learn. The instructor had good knowledge and answered all individual questions well.\
\
I waited 45 minutes before the class started this may have been prevented if IT had set up the link before 9am instead of leaving it so late.   I found the split of people working remotely and in class difficult. The tutors attention is then divided. You then have twice the amount of technical issues which really slow down the learning process. I did a 2 day photoshop class in London last year which was better as there was no remote students.  A lot of people didn't have after effects on there macs/PCs. It would have been handy to have this stated beforehand.  \
\
Very good and instructor took time to help me\
I found it having students in the room and online very disruptive. Lots of IT issues.\
\
\
\
\
\
The person doing the course remotely slowed things up due to issues with the host PC, this got very frustrating and seems to be a regular thing I see and hear about the remote access course\
Great course.\
Tony was patient and understanding to the slower students, like me!!!\
Great teacher ! Really patient with great attention to details\
\
\
\
Luckily had my laptop as no other PC's available. Would be good to have an option to say what platform when booking the course. \
Learned a great deal amount of basics in Revit, very informative and goes through one step at a time. Always willing to answer all the questions asked. \
\
\
\
\
\
Ian Gilbert was a fantastic trainer - really insightful and very patient. His ability to render technical information understandable and easy to digest, made the course unintimidating.   \
\
\
\
\
Thank you Academy Class and Thank you Marc!\
Great course and the trainer Marc Campman was very good.\
\
The version of Cinema 4d wasn't the newest one and it was on pc's rather than macs. \
Lovely course! Greta is a very clear teacher who welcomes participation, and questions. The practical side of the course where we learn how to implement the UX design principles in designing a pretend app was really helpful for me. It reinforced everything learned from the ISO standard, as I am a practical learner. It also showed me how to take everything into practice in my workplace, which is valuable to both myself and the company I work for. \
very good course\
Pros: The instructor and the course was great and really informative. I learnt a lot.  Cons: Academy Class sells the course for Mac / iOS users but on arrival, this Cinema 4D course is  only learnt on Windows / PCs (as told to us by a member of staff). Would recommend checking ahead of time with Academy Class on the phone before booking via the website.\
\
It would be great to be able to experience real life user testing or usability testing in a lab environment.\
Greta is great tutor. Her passion is infectious. She was personal and very hands on. Thank you Greta\
Michael Sean Nugent is an excellent teacher and his knowledge and enthusiasm for the subject made it fun and enjoyable.  I thoroughly enjoyed the three day course.\
There was no training material.  The course was very adapted to our needs and therefore helped a lot. Especially with the direct implementation of the learning content. \
I FEEL IT WOULD IMPROVE THE COURSE TO HAVE LITERATURE HANDED OUT TO DELEGATES AT THE BEGINNING OF THE COURSE SHOWING THE SEQUENCE FOR THE DIFFERENT TASKS. LISTENING TO THE TUTOR, WORKING ON THE PC AND TAKING NOTES AT THE SAME TIME SLOWS DOWN THE PROCESS IN MY VIEW WHERE AS IF THE SEQUENCE WAS WRITTEN AND AN AREA FOR NOTES ON THE PAGE IT WOULD SIMPLIFY THINGS.\
\
Course was a bit late starting but still managed to cover plenty in the day which made up for this.\
Adrian was very helpful to help us create a project with our training materials & systems . Highly recomended .\
\
no course notes provided is disappointing.\
I did the course as a virtual student so the facilities were not applicable to myself, however, there were a few technical issues at times which were resolved quickly.  I think the course could benefit from some written notes as there were none provided.  I didn't receive confirmation that the course was definitely running until the week before when I contacted the organisers to confirm.  \
TO MUCH TO LEARN IN A SHORT TIME\
\
\
\
\
More advice on preparing for the course would have been helpful. In order to get the maximum potential from the course. i.e. Learning more shot cut keys before attending in order to keep up with the pace during the class.  Taking notes, watching tutorials and putting them into practice was difficult at times. A hard copy of the course guide would have been helpful to review what was covered in the class that day (as some of my notes had gaps! due to trying to keep up).  \
Many thanks to Sharjil Quraishi who was very responsive when I had pre-booking questions, and to Ian Gilbert who delivered a very informative InDesign course.\
Very good teacher and great subject knowledge\
\
Kelman was very friendly and knew a lot about Prem Pro. He gave a good demonstration of how to do something and would then leave us to work through it but be there to answer our questions and support us in any other way he could.\
The pace of instructions/demonstrations was a bit fast for me personally. And demonstrations were followed by monologues on a few occasions which weren't overly relevant and meant that the actual demos weren't properly reinforced. By the time we were offered a chance to or try things out I'd forgotten what steps I needed to take!  I also felt the first hour of the course was overly long and unnecessary as it was largely a monologue from the trainer talking about the interface. A handout may have been more useful in this respect.  I enjoyed the morning of day 2 more as it offered skills that are expressly relevant to me in my job, including blurring out faces, adding transitions, frame holds and then titles in the afternoon.   Overall I think some of the content was over and above my competency level and the level that I need to do my job, which meant it got a bit lost in translation.\
Excellent course, great introduction to Premier Pro. Plenty of time to ask questions and familiarize yourself with the software.  \
\
\
\
Very friendly, knowledgeable and skilled trainer. Felt comfortable asking questions. \
great course, nice teacher, building a bit weird and not perfectly organised, our teacher had to find room and facility's for us first\
Through no fault of the trainer our session started an hour late because we didn't have a room, and we had to work with PC Laptops when we work on Macs day to day. Not ideal. \
Our course started 1 hour late. No room was booked for us. A spare room was found eventually and pc laptops (rather than the requested macs) were provided. Not all of the necessary software was installed on the machines and this delayed the training at several points throughout the day. The delay and additional complications that this created were entirely unacceptable.\
Instructor has a good sense of humour\
\
\
\
Although the course covered what was expected, I was disappointed to find out that there were no supporting documents, take away materials or even training materials to support the learning throughout the course, especially being a begineers course. All I had to take away was my own notes.  Having attended courses elsewhere, I've always been provided with take away. So I found that slightly disappointing given the cost of the course.  The website is also quite misleading where it states certification is provided. I had assumed this was Adobe certification. My trainer was completely unaware of any form of certification.   I must comment on Ben the trainer though. Very friendly, knowledgable and willing to help whenever needed.\
Great course _ Ben Dale is excellent and very funny, makes learning on online please.\
The course was really good and met my learning objectives. However, I sometimes had trouble connecting to the virtual machine, and with After Effects itself, as some functions were not working properly.\
It'd be helpful some working materials to take home as a post-course support.\
\
I was a virtual student 2 days out of the 3 day course. The virtual technology was not good. There was always a time lag on the occasions when I needed to speak remotely to the instructor via 'GoToMy Training' which made conversations very tricky. But the most annoying part was so many times my computer which was logged on using GoToMyPc to use the programme froze more times than I could count. This also meant that the instructor could not see me carrying out the task therefore my learning was not properly monitored and I did not get the feedback I needed. So it was incredibly frustrating as I wasted so much time looking at a frozen screen. Day 3 in the class room was absolutely fine, no problems at all. \
\
Really enjoyed the course thank you. Would be great to have more handouts on certain exercises as a reminder for the future.\
\
\
Great course, just the right length for me. The trainer was very welcoming and accommodating of any questions we had, and had a solution for every query.\
\
WINDOWS WITHOUT BLINDS HERE GLARE AGAINST THE PRESENTER'S DISPLAY\
Handouts and key summary sheets would be great.\
\
\
I feel some sort of paper material should be provided for references. Writing down notes is fine but sometimes the teacher was going to fast to follow up on both. \
Very very helpful instructor, easy to understand.\
\
\
Building and facilities are poor\
Very good course.\
Loved this course, found it really good for following with the extra screens and small class size. Friendly tutor made it easy to ask questions.\
\
\
instructor is attentive to our interests, and willing to adapt to meet our specific training needs. Also he has professional experiences which give credibility and give insights\
My instructor Kelman was very helpful throughout the course and taught the lessons in an informative manner which enabled the key points to be absorbed and fully understood.\
The courses are great the building very tired\
Really good instructor with a great width and breadth of knowledge.\
\
Very useful to a beginner to provide knowledge of the basics - intermediate for marketing tools. \
Great start to understanding the basics of InDesign. Learnt a lot about how to improve my current working methods (self-taught!). \
Very useful\
Unfortunately I didn't pass the exam but came very close. This is nothing to do with the teacher who was excellent throughout. I look forward to trying again in the near future after some  MORE PRACTICE!\
Geddy was a brilliant teacher - very knowledgeable and patient with all of us! I passed the exam and feel I have a very good understanding of InDesign so couldn't ask for any more than that! \
Geddy was a friendly, knowledgable instructor who made the course very enjoyable \
Adrian is very knowledgeable about Captivate and did encourage participation so we all had a go at creating and maintaining recorded simulations. Course materials? Well there were none. Course objectives? We didn't see any. Hence the scores above.  Would have felt more like a course if we'd had proper introductions, objectives, timings and so on at the beginning and maybe a course manual. But we covered and practised the stuff we wanted to learn, and that's what matters most. Once we'd got day 2 focussed to our requirements, everything went pretty well.\
\
\
\
Geddy was a really great teacher, really helpful and knowledgable!! Had a lady who was virtually training with us and there were lots of interruptions so made it difficult at times.\
There were no materials, only demonstrations and sharing screens through the students which was helpful but I shared the need of support materials with the instructor. \
Excellent course with a instructor who had great knowledge, humour and really got the class involved\
\
very good\
N/A\
The course was poorly organised (it was postponed in several occasions and the content and pre-requisites weren't clear)  and lacked the depth of technical content most of us were hoping for (i.e. the balance was more on the design side than the engineering side even though most of us were engineers).\
Too short, didn't match my expectations on the technical side. While the course gave a good practical understanding of many parts (graphics), other parts of the engine were not covered, and some were not covered in enough depth. I don't feel like there were enough examples on gameplay and the overall structure of the projects.\
We didn't finish all the subjects and I was under the impression we would get into more technical details, however on the last day he changed his mind and told us he rather have some one with more technical knowledge teach us virtually at a later time, bit of a disappointment.   We also spent 2 hours setting up a piece of software we only actually used for 5 minutes (3dsmax), a bit of a waste; Could've just shown us instead.\
\
it was an integrative experience and Chakib was amazing and full of energy  \
I really enjoyed the Adobe CP training, It was informative, Interactive and challenging. I think this was due to our vibrant and very eloquent instructor, Chakib. Who through his knowledge and expertise delivered a brilliant three days that was packed with all the information and skillset that we will need. Thank you Chakib!\
I thoroughly enjoyed this course, the presenter ensured high interaction in group and no bored moments.\
VERY GOOD.\
N/A\
\
Our Instructor is very knowledgeable and sympathetic to the different speeds of learning students have. He is patient and very professional with a friendly personality. Equipment was first class.\
Geddy was great but the training room was rather stuffy! Course content was really good and met my expectations.\
\
\
The instructor was a little difficult to understand at times. English wasn't his first language. He was also a little serious. A few more smiles would be nice :o) He did go a bit fast through some bits. But otherwise overall it I learned a lot and found it really useful. Now I just have to remember it all!\
\
Very enjoyable and eye-opening. Learnt as a good pace: in the zone of proximal development - not to hard, not too easy. Thanks.\
Excellent course refresher \
The classroom was too hot and stuffy and the building itself isnt very nice, the kitchen is very unappetising \
Awesome tutor, great course. Learned a lot. Would recommend. \
Marius was a great teacher once again!\
Great tutor teaching at a perfect pace. \
Great tutor. Loved the course.\
Excellent, would do another course again in the future.\
Nigel was great and explained things thoroughly. To no fault of his own I was much more competent than the person who arranged this training for me. Sadly it was too basic for me.\
\
\
The instructor was very knowledgeable and the course was delivered in an entertaining and practical way. The course was fantastic.  The resources and files the instructor shared were invaluable and will help our businesses grow going forward\
\
\
Great course, I learnt a lot, will definitely recommend\
I really like the training setup, having your own mac and a secondary screen which displays the instructors screen, this really helped will practical work. John was a great instructor, very patient and explained things clearly.\
\
\
Thoroughly enjoyed the course.\
\
One of the key objectives is to leave you feeling confident ahead of the exam and I cant say that I do. The exam prep section seemed to create as many questions as it did provide answers and some of the content we hadn't discussed.   The instructor moved through the green-belt course too quickly and at times it was really hard work to try and keep up. We spent long periods going into detail about areas that were of lesser importance to the group which reduced the amount of time available for more practical exercises.  There seemed to be a reluctance to 'finish the job' and at 4.30pm on the dot every day we would finish, regardless of progress. \
Geddy is very knowledgeable and the course covers a great deal. I think you need to have a background in Illustrator to keep up with all the activities and have additional time to practice allocated. It would be easier to follow in face to face environment too.\
\
Enrolled on the Gold course, and After Effects, but Premiere Pro was by far the most interesting and relevant course for me. Highly recommended.\
\
\
Is there supposed to be an exam?\
N/A\
\
The registration process could be improved - as could the information provided about the content of the (currently) 3 Revit training courses on offer. Those taking the course require more detail. \
\
THE INSTRACTOR WAS VERY HELPFUL AND I BELIEVE THAT HE ENJOYS HIS JOB  AND MAKE THE STUDENTS ENJOY ASWELL.  I TOTALLY RECCOMENT HIM.  \
\
\
\
\
Great tutor\
\
some worksheets to go along with the course would be handy as a reference guide\
SHOULD HAVE HANDOUTS/CHEAT SHEETS FOR COMMON TASKS - TO REINFORCE PATH\
\
\
I enjoyed my course greatly, especially because it was very relevant to me and my career progression. I did learn a lot of useful stuff that will help me in my everyday work.\
\
Really good course I learned a lot\
Ian taught the subject to a very high standard \
I enjoyed the course very much and I had a good knowledgeable instructor. It was really worth doing the course and I'm very happy I took the course.\
written NOTES would have been very helpful\
We were told this course would be three days, then when we arrived, myself and other members of the course were information it was only two days. Therefore we missed out on a day of valuable teaching and no explanation was given as to why.\
The virtual connection wasn't great at all when we originally started the course. Poor communication at the set up where no one knew what was happening, the course didn't start for us until 11:30. Michael himself handled it very well though and is always composed.\
cheat/reference sheets would have been helpful to highlight new skills as we went along\
\
The course itself is fine,  I had no problems with the tuition, or the pace. \
The Course had been very helpful in order for me to understand the revit software and I think I have enough knowledge as a base to go away and use it in the workplace and provide some visuals for clients.\
THE INSTRUCTOR IS VERY HELPFUL AND KIND. HE HAS A POSSITIVE ATTITUDE AND HE IS OPEN TO ANY QUASTIONS. HE KNOWS VERY WELL THE PROGRAM. I TOTALLY RECOMMENT HIM. \
\
\
\
Wish I'd been enrolled on the full 5 day course!\
\
\
My first impression was underwhelming, the main office was messy and I wasn\'82\'c4\'f4t sure where to register  Once I had met the instructor I then began to relax. He quickly assessed and recognised my needs\
\
Could be nice to use HD material  \
Really enjoyed the course itself and wish I could have stayed for the full week however facilities could have been better.\
The registration process was a little confusing. It needs to be stated on the email that a person will ask you to sign into the building.\
Brilliant course and teacher. Unfortunately the room and building were too hot.\
\
good course, set at a good pace.\
\
was great\
\
All in all I thought the instructor was very good and very knowledgeable, but felt he got a little lost at times and unsure where to find things in the menus as he was used to using short cuts rather than the menus, but I view that as very minor. The facilities are very dated and really let the company down along with some of the kit available, I know that with previous people I have sent on courses before have come back as not being great venue wise.\
really enjoyable course with a lot of content. would be useful for me to have a small reminder guide to take away with methods in case I get stuck when practicing. Teachers subject knowledge was superb and great to learn from someone with industry experience. \
Ian was a very good and capable teacher \
\
Overall it was really good course and experience. \
\
\
n/a\
This course has greatly improved my understanding of Photoshop tools\
\
\
Overall very good, but would have liked to take away some written material for reference of an intensive day.\
Customer service needs to improve! course was great\
#NAME?\
Amazing teacher, very easy to understand and I'm very happy with what i have learnt \
\
Very informative, and has given me a great understanding of After Effects that I can apply to my normal job.\
The course was fast paced \
Mac hardware could be faster\
\
\
Sadly the course was condensed from 5 days to 3. This meant that we were unable to cover as much course content as hoped for. Sofia was great in squeezing in as much content as she could in the allowed time but content for two whole days are lost, regardless of how you look at it.  There were technical issues with user machines not being ready for course - not enough licences for use. Even the trainer was locked out mid-course when her trail version expired!  On Monday I showed up with another trainee and both courses had been postponed without any notice. Unacceptable.\
Computer systems unable to cope with intensity of application.   A 5 day course compressed into 3 felt rushed. \
\
this was a great course to understand the broad aspects of social media and give me enough information to go away and start running some social media campaigns for myself.  Already booked into the advanced course.\
perfectly led course! come out with a new wealth of knowledge\
Ian is a good teacher with a good manner in the classroom and happy to help. It would have been better if we had been given both manuals on day one. The stuff we went through on the Friday morning was slightly rushed. It would have been good to cover some of this before the day of the test. Perhaps a bit more repetition of some of the tasks would be good. Overall a very enjoyable course and has helped me a lot.\
the course manuals are pdf would like to have printed versions on the day or be sent them early so I can print them out myself then I have make notes on the training manual and not have to take loads of notes \
Great course, very interesting though a lot of material to get through in a relatively short space of time, so quite intensive. Learned a lot which will be useful at work. \
Thank you I enjoyed the course and am looking forward to putting what I have learned into practise.\
I really enjoyed every moment learning how to use Illustrator. My Intructor was brilliant, patient and  explained everything clearly. I feel so excited about creating vector Illustrations and I'm looking forward to making them for clients. Thank Acadamy Class\
The instructor Richard was really helpful and knowledgeable. He answered all the questions we had and made sure we were truly ready for the exam. I'd definitely recommend the course for anyone who wants to deepen their Adobe Illustrator knowledge.\
THANK YOU VERY MUCH TO RICH THE INSTRUCTOR AND ALL ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT FOR THE HELP AND ENCOURAGEMENT\
The instructor had a great pace and was able to explain all the questions to everyone in the group without interfering with the pace. \
\
Imantas was a  great teacher - very knowledgeable and keen to pursue any little issues or irregularities that cropped up with the software etc. He moved at a fast pace which was good to fit all in, but of course would revert and go slower if anything was missed or needed re-enforcing.  Would certainly do further study in Unity or another course with him.\
An excellent personalised course.  We had a number of objectives in our learning that Imantas covered well.  A great grounding and leaving us with the skills to investigate more by ourselves.\
\
intstructor was very good. Had to use a pc when wanted course on a mac.\
It changed my life. \
Good, productive day, cheers.\
\
\
The deliverer was obviously very knowledgeable and was keen to show us as much as possible; however he went through everything too quickly - it was quite difficult to watch his demo and have a go ourselves at the same time. No attempts to check we were keeping up and it felt like we were having to apologise if we needed a recap.  No objectives or initial intro to the software either. Would be useful to see how this tool would actually fit into our role rather than just what Illustrator can do. This would be much better as a face to face event. The exercises themselves were really good, but you didn't always get chance to finish them before he was moving onto the next topic. I had a go in my own time last night and found things a lot easier at a slower pace. \
A great course which has taught me a lot in a short space of time. Generally, a good delivery, however, as the content got more advanced Geddy should have slowed down a little, it was very difficult to keep up at times. The colours section (global, spot etc.) felt rushed and it seemed as though everybody was confused and had fallen behind.\
The instructor was very knowledgeable, however there were no objectives set at the start or an agenda so was difficult to see how one section/element linked to the next. We didn't have any conversation to ascertain levels of ability upfront either so wasn't tailored to the needs of the audience. The two days were very fast paced and sometimes difficult to follow, if you got stuck on a step the instructor was quickly past it and I didn't always feel comfortable asking to stop/repeat . The second afternoon with art text was easier to follow, however the print/web versions/settings was really confusing and didn't understand how this relates to how we will use it in our role. Would have been better as a face to face session. Am concerned about not having any time to use the software before the Greenbelt course.\
Completely lost off with regards to colours, pdf's etc towards the end of the day as there was no direct correlation to what i do and why i would chose whatever options are needed \
Thank you to Geddy for delivering such a great two days, i really enjoyed it and when struggling took the time to explain it to us all, the only suggestion i would have is maybe to ask us where we are up to a bit more, but really loved the two days. \
\
A great deal of information to take in over two days. Although I learnt a great deal I would like to have spent more time on certain areas so I would be more confident in using the application.  The space in the room was cramped and too warm.\
All has been excellent, from enrollment to the fantastic instruction\
Excellent! \
Having NO previous experience I found this course very useful and I now feel confident and capable to use the Indesign for my business needs.\
Really good course very helpful tutor \
Came away with more of an understanding of adobe and indesign\
\
The travel directions were not great to get here from Picadilly station - needed more detail and if any buses come here. Needed decaf tea with the refreshments.  Was chased quite a lot for payment when the account team were told a number of times that it was in process and we had to set them up as a supplier. Became a bit much in the end. Was also not told that my colleague who was doing it online would have to come in person for the exam. This was a bit of a shock and she had to change arrangements to come. Would have been better to know in advance. Also would have been good to get a printed textbook to take away with the course.\
\
Thank you In Design is my new favourite programme!\
It would be useful to receive the course notes before starting so that you could add notes to the side rather than writing lots of notes and then receiving them. This would speed up the practical side and be helpful and consistent.  \
n/a\
\
The room was very small and the noise out side didn't help sometimes \
This review is for Unity 3D and VR (not Jumpstart). The instructor, Inky, was fantastic. Incredible knowledge of the subject area and method of teaching by doing was really effective. Learnt so much about Unity and a stronger understanding of developing for VR. The facilities at Academy Class could have been a lot better though. The machines we did the training on were low spec and not up to scratch in terms of VR work, and at times were slow and unresponsive. The environments were also not properly configured.\
Inky knew his subject very well.  Some of the material was advanced for my level of understanding but I learned lots and have a clear guide as to what I need to concentrate on now.\
\
I can't really judge the course yet, since we skipped 50% of the classes, for different reasons and no one fault apparently, but still this change of plan was a bit annoying. Fortunately both me and my instructor are flexible enough, despite our busy life, and we will catch up soon. \
The course seemed to drag slightly, focusing on some things that weren't important. For the first morning we spent the first few hours talking about pixels and nothing actually about Photoshop which seemed unnecessary for the amount of time taken, we could have got on with practical tasks and learnt a lot quicker.  The teacher could have been more prepared for the second day, we ran out of things to do towards the end and given that this is only a starter class there should be much more we could have learnt.  The teacher seemed to really know what he was talking about but didn't explain things that well as he showed us what to do. He also could have been more enthusiastic about what he was teaching as it was quite awkward at times. \
I found the course very helpful overall and I will definitely be more confident when using Photoshop in future. I do, however, feel like the course is disproportionately weighted towards theory instead of practical. As someone who learns by doing, I would prefer to have more 'on the job' learning. \
Adrian was very patient, went through the subject matter at a good speed and was very helpful.\
\
\
Our trainer was willing to explore the intricacies of our industry in great detail\
I attended the course as a remote user.  There were some demonstrations given to the class that i was unable to see.  Mark was very helpful at recapping and going over bits that I'd missed. \
\
I thought the teacher was lovely but i felt he spoke too much about his past experiences rather then passing on as much information about the program as possible. I also didn't partially like who the whole of the second day was devoted to making our brochure.  I think we could have had more time learning new things. \
\
NOT PROFFESIONAL ENOUGHT FOR ME, SORRY \
Really enjoyed this course. At times struggled a little with the pace, but in the main kept up and learnt a lot. Will need to practice a lot now! \
Very beneficial training course, will use going forward\
Really good and knowledgable instructor. Good range of information covered.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
In my view, the course bring a lot of information in a very short period of time. Because of that, I didn't manage to complete most of the exercises and I felt running behind most of the time.\
Really enjoyed the course and i learnt a lot, the instructor was nice and super helpful (when he got round to you) just wish the course was a bit longer so that the instructor could go slower as i felt at some points he was going a bit to quick but overall loved to course and would easily recommend the course to a friend and i would happily do the course again \
IT WAS A BIT QUICK SO I MISSED A LOT OF INFORMATION\
I thought we were going to learn a little bit more. Especially on the last day where everything is a bit rushed. Will be good to understand the drawing principle first \
was very happy with all training apart of I have not received any information about the starting date and time \
\
i'M SURPRISED THAT WE DID NOT RECEIVE ANY COURSE MATERIALS\
\
I was neither involved with the booking or booking process. I would expect to be given either a training book or reference notes as part of the course, a short key sheet would have helped especially as the software was non standard. \
An informative course with emphasis on being able to use and construct scenes with confidence straight away, as opposed to learning just button functionality. Instructor with exceptional knowledge and ability to communicate this across\
Course lead was very knowledgeable. Training was structured and at a easy pace to understand. Supporting material would be good which could be taken away for reflection after the course has ended.\
The booking process was good, adviser was very nice and accommodating. Top service received thus far.\
\
Very enjoyable course. Learnt more than expected, which can be easily applied to my professional and personal work.\
\
I like learning and understanding new things, HTML and code was a brick wall for me, but after the 2 days training with Tony, i understood the basic elements, so good job! \
The course was very well structured, presented and easy to follow. I picked up the features of AutoCAD quickly due to the way it was presented by Michael Sean.  I would be happy to do a higher level course in the future for 3D modelling. \
Everything was alright the only problem was there was 6 of us, and another 2 that were doing online. And because of internet and everything else sometimes we have to wait for their connection about 15 minutes . That just waste our time. It's better to have a separate session for online course not impact them with a normal course.\
Overall the course was very good and i have learned exactly what we set out to do, Tony was a very competent teacher, however when some the course members were working a little slower than the rest of us, he didn't always allow for them to catch up and sometimes lost his patience with them.\
Printed course agenda would be an advantage to monitor progress. Course notes in bullet format to aid revision.\
Good course and I have picked up the relevant skills in AutoCAD for my profession. \
\
Brilliant instructor and great content, would recommend to anyone. \
\
Course started a little late due to technical difficulties.  Our instructor was very good at ensuring we caught up.  Our instructor was very patient and attentive to all of our needs.   The course instructions came through a little late and I think additional information regarding lunch would be useful i.e. bring your own / you don't provide / onsite restaurant. \
More examples needed to back up training and training hand out would have been good.\
\
Course would be better if held in Manc city centre and lunch was provided.\
\
Thank you\
\
Well ive talked with one of your colleagues and he asked for a evidence about photoshop advertisement that you had ran on social media. I sent it to him and he didnt even reply me back, so ive missed the discount. This is not fair.\
\
\
\
\
\
Course was basic level, not intermediate as expected\
\
VERY GOOD\
\
This has been an outstanding course and I wouldn't hesitate to recommend it to others\
David made a complex topic so easy\
\
\
\
i asked for pc at the booking' no pc! the courses are to fast for beginners, although the tutor deals with the students its still to fast\
Great course. Excellent instructor. Felt sorry for him as there was a rather rude lady on our course...she was very offensive at times. \
\
\
This Sketchup course has been so beneficial for me. It has been a brilliant refresher, and I am looking forward to utilising it within my future projects. I think I will need to ask follow up questions regarding V-Ray in the coming weeks, as it is the first time I have used the plugin. \
really good! leant a lot!\
\
Very good instructor, very encouraging. I think the facilities are terrible, noisy and hot. There were a few small errors in the slide show and the display resolutions and the stretching of the of the content on our screens made things hard to read and follow. But overall very good, a very nice teacher and staff. \
Outside are too noisy and the text at screen are to small sometime. \
Amazing course, very helpful and the instructor Greta she is the best!! Very good job.\
Richard is a great instructor, very accommodating to the needs of his students individual requirements whilst getting all the course material needed across to pass the ACA exam.\
\
\
Extremely useful course - I went from a beginner to actually knowing how to find my way round AutoCAD. Now it's a case of practice, practice, practice, but it's good that I now know the language.\
The Tutor was incredible. Very experienced and great at working with us all whilst we are all different paces. \
\
Actually felt that I learned something. \
The tutor was amazing! \
The trainer was knowledgeable in using the software and made an excellent effort to deal with specific questions and enquiries. I felt that she might not have been provided with adequate structure in the curriculum so, while I was able to learn enough to pass the exams, I still feel there are some things I could have missed. The trainer also helped in other areas of the Adobe creative cloud which I found useful. \
\
The instructions on how to find the venue were confusing as there is no 'Hungry as an Elephant' Cafe that we could find.   There were some issues with the Adobe license box that kept popping up.   Not very nice rooms which we have been learning in.  \
Found the course really good overall really informative and I feel like I know a lot more now.  \
I only received my booking confirmation one working day before the actual course which I felt was quite late. But the actual course was very good!  Richard was a great instructor who moved at the perfect pace but also took sufficient time to explain things when questions came up. He also used several references to real work situation (e.g. typical client requests) which made the class and examples very real and useful.\
I was signed up top the course by my work and I thoroughly enjoyed it. Our instructor Richard was really helpful and it was easy to work and learn with his teaching pace. Although it wasn't the first time when I was using the Illustrator, I felt like I really learnt a lot over these two days. Thank you.\
Provided a comprehensive guide of key illustrator principals from the bottom up. Richard moved through the subject matter at a good rate and helped students where required. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The course was useful, but there is a lot of room for improvement. * Course notes and a step by step guide along with the course would have been handy. Getting them afterwards is silly.  * No water in the room and it was really hot!  * The course wasn't well structured learning random techniques here there and everywhere. It would have been more beneficial to actually create a document from the start and in a structured format, using the techniques build upon it over the two days. WITH NOTES.\
Enthusiastic teacher and very willing to help with specific problems. My personal preference for learning is to go through structured chapters with supplementary course notes so I'm able to reassure myself that I'm following the procedures correctly and for ease of referral later on. \
Sofia was an excellent tutor \
Course was cancelled first time round.  Tutor very nice and knowledegable.\
Excellent course! Training very helpful and can't wait to start putting this into practice.\
\
\
\
Ian is a really nice teacher and is easy to ask for help even in a learning environment. \
Great course. Very enjoyable and easy to soak up what was taught in the space of just two days. Would highly recommend the course to anyone that wants to learn about After Effects.\
\
I found the course to be very useful, Ian is a great trainer and I managed to learn a lot from him in the week I was here. He made a complicated software like AfferEffects look so much more simple. I would like to thank Ian for his patience and for all of his help over the past week.\
\
It's a great course to get onto the 'basics' of Unity. Using quotation marks here because I've been using Unity for a while, but everything I learned was new.\
Because i think i'm a more advance Unity user, the course didn't cover some of the topics that i had doubts, but asking directly to the teacher solve the more complicated questions that wasn't in the plan. \
nice course to have an overview about the tools and the methodologies that unity gives you.\
This is a great course to have an overview of the capabilities of Unity in a well guided way\
Nice flow, easy to talk to, lots of questions asnwered.\
Really helpful to understand how unity works!\
\
Very interesting training. Awesome teacher. The pace of the course was fine. The contents too.\
It was great, I learnt everything I wanted too! \
Excellent training course and flexible to cover things I wanted to learn for personal and professional purposes.\
Not enough time to do the exam, question should be made simpler for this level of course\
\
The time limit on the exam creates an unnecessary stress and overshadows the learning somewhat, especially if you don't pass\
\
Steve was a fantastic teacher.\
Steve is a brilliant tutor, really knows how to teach individuals on a basic and advanced level. Very patient and helpful with all questions asked; even to the point where he gives you several options for each individual task. \
\
I felt that although the teacher covered a range of different aspects of Premier pro he did not go in depth, and I was hoping the course would go in more depth into all the aspects we are learning rather than just point out the basics.\
Loved coming here the last few weeks. Thank you. \
Course is awesome, take you from zero to hero in a weeks time.\
\
Overall a good course, but i think as its a zero to hero course, things need to be explained more and have more of a breakdown of each editing technique. I think a simple quick guide book at the start of the course, so that students can go away and look through and revise so that they can fully understand the topics taught.  The instructor was very good, he was very knowledgeable and could point us in the right direction on where to find things if we were unsure, and talked about his work which put some techniques into perspective and where to use them.  \
This course was booked for me by my workplace, However my instructor Kelman at the Glasgow Premiere Pro course was by far the best teacher in this subject, he was passionate about the software, enthused by the whole experience and this in turn helped me learn in a whole new way - He went above and beyond and talked to us about practical aplications of the different features of the software, rather than just teaching us to cover a certain topic. \
Better reception would be great, unsure where we was going. \
\
\
Great course, wonderful tutor\
\
As a virtual student I found this course very easy to follow.  Ian was also on hand to help and always checked with me, verbally and visually, that I was understanding and following the course.  When I did get a bit lost he was on hand to help and guide me through until I had found my way again. I would highly recommend this course and highly recommend virtual learning.\
As a virtual student I found this course very easy to follow.  Ian was also on hand to help and always checked with me, verbally and visually, that I was understanding and following the course.  When I did get a bit lost he was on hand to help and guide me through until I had found my way again. I would highly recommend this course and highly recommend virtual learning.\
As a virtual student I found this course very easy to follow.  Ian was also on hand to help and always checked with me, verbally and visually, that I was understanding and following the course.  When I did get a bit lost he was on hand to help and guide me through until I had found my way again. I would highly recommend this course and highly recommend virtual learning.\
Ian had the perfect pace, not too slow or fast but enough time to understand everything in time to move on to the next section of the training.\
Really enjoyable course.\
\
\
My instructor Kelman was patient, knowledgeable and a friendly guy that was passionate on the subject of video editing - this shows with his style of teaching and enthusiasm for ensuring we learn what we needed.\
Dominico was a great instructor with thorough depth and knowledge of the programme\
Everything was interesting and helpful. Domenico is really a good teacher.\
Domenico is a great teacher who made the class interesting and fun.\
Very good\
THE EXAM HAS MORE THAN THEORETICAL QUESTION AND THERE IS MORE THAN ONE QUESTION WERE NEW FOR ME \
\
Steve was top \
\
\
Enjoyable course, Geddy was friendly, patient and would always help when i got stuck. He also came in early to help me refresh on things I was unclear of.\
\
Vary fast paced, but probably should have attended more elementary course first.\
\
\
Need faster macs with dedicated graphics cards in order to complete some photoshop brushing without lag\
\
N/A\
\
Domenico is a very good tutor.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
So far its been great, we have learnt a good amount in the past 3 days. However one thing which would be a major point is that we are not provided with any sort of materials, notes, step by step guide for us to refer back to during the lesson and especially in our own time to practice. This makes it much harder to remember stuff or do something without getting one to one help. Especially seeing as it is a extensive program, it can be harder as a new learner.  \
It is a very complected course so trainees would need a manual or a handout to review the info, which is messing in this case. \
We did not receive any teaching materials i.e. handbooks with instructions and course structure. \
Kelman was able to tailor the course to our needs from a police perspective and offered the best demonstrations and idea to incorporate into our work.\
\
\
NEED FASTER MACS... they slow down too much during simple actions\
The course was bespoke and was tailored to our needs. Due to this the instructor was very flexible and helpful in showing us how to best use the software. \
\
\
\
\
There wasn't as much depth as I'd hoped there might be. \
\
\
Ben was very good.\
maybe more time to work on longer projects - 30mins to create something just to practice all techniques learnt, was very her'es one thing try this now here's another do this.... \
\
Greta was a great instructor and ran through the material very well.   Negatives:  A bit of a tired building A lot of ambient noise from the construction work happening outside - not great for a learning environment.\
\
More focus on technical specs would help others pass the exam (however boring). The venue is uninspiring for a business offering creative courses for creative professionals- even if it is very convenient being right by Waterloo. Show people where the toilets are on arrival....not just the refreshments, its a huge building to get lost in. Send the course materials over in advance of the course for pre-study and inform attendees that they will need to put time aside for studying in the evening. \
The exam was a little tricky as there were some bugs and also there seemed to be more ways to get the end result than was possible to do in the simulator\
Geddy is great!\
Course syllabus in advance/to keep would be good- to know what you are going to cover and also have a reference point when looking back at notes. Exercises automatically sent to you again would be good- essentially an online companion (in the simplest sense)  to the in person course. \
Overall a great course, my only thing would be to have more upbeat (trainer) as a monotone voice can be a little tiring. Very patient and good trainer.\
\
\
\
Ian was very good, patient at going through stuff and re-capping, very clear and enjoyable.\
A great experience!\
Venue was fiddly to get in on first day and get setup for remote access - although the IT guy and tutor where excellent. Venue could do with blinds on the windows as glare on the screen was an issue (even in Glasgow!)\
Would be good to get a pre-summary a few days in advance of the course - i did not receive any confirmation/reminder. However, course and instructor was overall very good.\
I have learnt a lot and feel confident to use Inventor. Some laptops needed massive Windows updates, wasting a bit of time. Laptop screen slightly small. Would have preferred larger display\
Tony was great at explaining and teaching PS I have feel very confident after doing the Yellowbelt course for 2 days and am a complete Novice! :) \
\
\
Ben Dale, our tutor, was very knowledgeable in his subject and I felt I could ask anything on the topic without being made to feel stupid - a friendly style combined with a wide-range of knowledge and well-paced to meet our requirements.\
My only extremely small criticism is that, although Imantas was an excellent teacher and very knowledgable of the software, I found that he went at quite a quick speed and trying to keep up was sometimes difficult.\
Thank you.\
POSSIBLE EMAIL TELLING ME ABOUT THE COURSE AND LOCATION, ALSO A COMFIRMATION TO SAY ITS BEEN BOOKED ONTO\
\
Very enjoyable course!\
Course leader (Mark) was very helpful although we were marred by technical issues connecting to other offices.  \
n/a\
Very useful. Very helpful in getting the training completed after a miscommunication with the setup.\
\
\
\
Great knowledge of Business Intelligence, Gave me a good insight into the system.\
Really helpful course, feel much more confident with Tableau now and going away with many more skills than when I arrived! Nicky made the 2 days very enjoyable and provided all the necessary assistance throughout. \
Very useful course full of information. Very friendly trainer and staff.  Well set up day for learning.\
Very good trainer, engaging and friendly. Knowledge of course content good, but perhaps not wider functionality and not very knowledgeable on statistics. Content good, but a little too spoon fed. Workbook takes you through exactly which buttons to press, rather than asking us to create X from the knowledge we'd gained. However it was a good beginners course that was very well delivered.\
At times, particularly during the Maps demonstration, I found it difficult to see the location of the mouse on the screen. This meant I wasn't always able to keep up with the demonstration and got left behind a couple fo times. Suggest increasing the size and colour of the mouse to make locating easier.\
Extremely useful course to give a broad spectrum of the functionality of the software. Trainer was willing to answer questions that were work related to our group as best as possible.\
Totally new to course.  I am a lot older than others on course so felt a bit slow at times but this was nothing to do with course trainer.  Really enjoyed it and I am sure it will be useful in future.  I have the basics to practice in my own time.  Thanks\
\
\
The course went at a good pace and the delivery was very clear and effective; a lot of ground was covered, but I didn't feel rushed through anything. It was unfortunate that there were a few IT issues, but these didn't affect things overall.\
The course was really helpful, good to see in more depth some of the capability of business objects. There are some helpful tips and ideas that I plan to bring back to my work within the business.  Some parts I think could have been more interactive/flexible e.g. having a go at hyperlinking docs together but overall I found it really productive.  I think it's great that a lot of it is based around practical work as I learn best by doing and Karen was a great instructor. \
Really comprehensive course. Karen made sure not to make it feel rushed and always had time to answer any questions I had. Really impressed with how easily consumable the material was made and was well worth the trip.\
Karen was brilliant, went through all the topics quite well. Well designed course.\
Very good\
\
\
\
\
\
Might have been good to diveded groups after how much you already know\
\
Good speed, valuable information and key tools to use BO.\
\
-\
\
\
I was very satisfied with the course and feel strongly that it met all its objectives.  The main reason I have scored the course so highly is because of the course content and the trainer.\
Karen has amazing knowledge and was great to work with.  I was very satisfied with the course.  The manual is great stuff.\
Rashi is an amazing trainer. She is very thorough and explained the basic fundamentals of the software. She made it very comfortable for me and I wish her all the luck for future and keep up the good work.\
The course material was good but changes to our data had made some of the examples less effective. Karen\'82\'c4\'f4s quality as a trainer and her in-depth knowledge were revealed by the way she overcame these unanticipated obstacles.\
\
\
Too obvious stuff covered. Content was explained very well though at a decent pace\
\
\
Great trainer!\
\
\
The room was rather cold\
\
\
Brilliant course and excelent trainer.\
The course was really thorough and interesting. David has vast knowledge of  concepts and makes the course interactive by telling real stories and facts using historical data. Really enjoyed on both days. And lunches are good too :)\
\
\
\
A really good course, David was very well informed and helpful. Only comment that it would have helped the class if he stopped to check every so often if everyone was on the same page, I could see we often weren't, but people were probably too embarrassed to ask.  Loads of good information given out, and a well run, interesting class. \
A good introduction to the product to grasp the fundamentals, although quite slow paced.\
\
\
\
\
\
Another good session! There were a couple of exercises that felt like they could have been more clearly explained but I think that's part of the organic nature of the course and would be easily resolved for repeat sessions. The new facilities were as good as the previous ones, with the exception of the food. Happy to have retained Asma and James with the transition, looking forward to next time.\
The trainers - Asma and James - are great. They make the course with their knowledge, experience and humour. I think that I probably enjoyed the first two courses a little more than this one, but that might be due to the subject as it was focused on conflict and I am conflict-adverse (that is a small joke, but a bit true too).  The venue was not as nice a room as we previously had - smaller and more grey. I don't think that we could have done some of the activities from the previous courses in this new room, so it might have limited the trainers somewhat (though it is impossible for us to know whether this was the case in this instance).  I would certainly recommend the course to others and I am very much looking forward to the next one in June. \
Course was helpful, and the practical exercises are a great way of getting an understanding on how things work. The course overall allows you to gain a really good basic understanding of the systems and the way things are working. Nicky explained things really clearly and effectively. The book is huge so can probably be seen as a little intimidating, but I think will be really useful in the long run.\
Went at just the right pace and covered a lot of ground effectively - excellent!\
Really enjoyed the last three days.  Karen is a great trainer and explained the functionality really well.  Many thanks.\
This two day course was really useful as a complete beginner to get to grips with SAP Web Intelligence.  The  tutor was knowledgeable and there were opportunities to complete tasks.  The pace was just right for a small group of three and questions could be asked at any point.  Lunch out was also really good.  Feedback: The map that was sent out on the 'how to find us doc' could have been clearer\
Course was very well structured and the trainer Karen was able to go through each topic and explain it very well.  The workshops were excellent as it exposed you to the topics covered on the presentation and provided you with hands on experience. The overall course was very enjoyable to learn and Karen was extremely helpful throughout. \
I was familiar with much of the content on the first day but I don't think this would be usual. This was a very well-paced course for the mix of existing knowledge among the delegates. I am going away with lots of ways to implement the features I learnt about on the course which the training made easy and clear.\
Good instructor that listens to questions and try to solve them even if they are in the grey area of the course.\
\
Always good examples and experienced teachers\
\
\
I enjoyed the course and felt it triggered a lot of thoughts and realisations. The food could be improved in my opinion, as lunches seemed quite unhealthy.\
The work on conflict and difficult conversations was good. As usual most of the documentation was via flip-chart based and felt quite free-flowing as a result (this is a good thing). Have yet to receive the link to review the documentation so cannot comment on the takeaway value of it.  There were a couple of areas where we seemed to be recapping old content and the cost of not covering new topics, and as a result I did not feel we covered all of the expected ground on negotiation, but i understand that we will revisit this in subsequent sessions.\
\
Given that Asma has left Impact Factory there has been a venue change. The new venue was not as good as the original. The room was smaller, and lunches not very great.\
Asma and James have built such a good rapport with all of the attendees and so the conversations and exercises are very open and honest. This friendly and safe atmosphere has been created by the trainers and it means that we can get the maximum possible from the training sessions. The course content and exercises were relevant to the situations we face at work and I personally got a lot out of the 2 days. I look forward to the next course! \
\
The course was very good, clearing all the basics of SQL.. David was really kind to answer all queries\
Another really good session. Learnt a lot and will no doubt draw on it in the future.\
\
A very interesting course. I enjoyed learning about the theory and the tips and tricks. Maybe could of had one or two more exercises, but this is only a minor point.\
A more detailed map to venue  would be good.\
A relaxed course that has given me ideas for how to improve products at work.\
Very good, interesting and engaging.\
\
I found the course extremely interesting as an introduction to IDT, having never used either Universe Designer or IDT previously.   Nicky worked through the material as a steady pace, ensuring we understood the content and we carried out workshops to ensure we were able to implement what we had learnt.\
\
\
Nicky is a really excellent trainer.  She demonstrated her vast knowledge in Business Objects and was able to answer all questions that were asked. Really enjoyed and learnt a lot.\
Nikki was an excellent trainer and the contents ain course are very good.\
\
Very good course, we covered though a little bit to much for 2 days I think\
Maybe it should be split into 2 Groups, advances users (faster speed) and Beginners (more basic steps)\
\
\
\
The trainer covered more topics. It is useful.\
\
\
Very good.. lots of useful information.. Could've done with a longer course as there is so much to learn! Although hand out/ booklet will help :)\
The trainer was very flexible with the content we covered. This made it much more relevant for us.\
\
I really enjoy this course. I think it will be very useful on my day to day work.\
\
Good course good pace\
\
Merci-beaucoup David/Karen.  Thanks for your patience....\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Too basic for my needs it was going over things I already knew.  I was hoping to explore some of the more advanced elements.  Trainer was very good it was just pitched at the wrong level for me.\
\
\
\
\
\
Some technical issues which caused some disturbances\
\
Good course right pace, good materials.\
Excellent all round\
Very useful course in getting an excellent overview of Tableau Desktop.  Facilities and materials were great!  Hope to start using Tableau back at work...  Thank you\
Drinks Machine wasn't working of the first day.  Toilets second day \
Thanks Nicky - Great Course - Well presented\
\
Very informative sessions.\
good and detailed content. queries cleared in detailed.\
\
\
\
I liked the course overall.  What would be really useful is going through the course as we did however if there could be recorded tutorials that we can then refer back to that would be great.  These tutorials would cover the aspects explained.  I think we could get more covered as we would only need to watch the demos then we could refer to the short recorded clips for parts that are relevant to us\
\
Karen explained  the  course content with clarity and patience- Thank  you for  this. \
\
\
Loved the fact that the group was small.....as in just us two!  Allowed us to get through what we wanted.  \
Had an amazing experience and definitely learnt a lot and feel more at ease with using BI\
excellent course at great pace\
Excellent, Well worth it.\
\
\
\
Very good course, the trainer was very knowledgable and skilled in the subject. A few issues with versions of the product were quickly resolved. Would be good to see a second more advanced course.\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent content that flowed from module to module\
\
\
\
Course as expected,\
\
Really great content in the Forecasting sections\
\
\
\
Overall an excellent course, very much appreciated the calm and polite manner in which David Hodges conducted the sessions, allowing the learners the time and space to learn. Very systematic and helpful with overall good materials to take things forward. My thinking at the moment is to move forward onto the Advanced course with David.  Thank you very much.\
\
\
It would be nice to get a reminder about the course the week or day before it starts, perhaps with a reminder of the joining instructions.\
Excellent course which has greatly raised my knowledge of all items covered on the course. Nicky made all subjects easy to understand.\
A lot of useful tips and material here.   Possibly slightly less coverage of technical/architecture side than I had expected; that seems to be more of an advanced course. \
Excellent content and demonstration by the trainer Nicki.\
Great Facility, course material and trainer.\
The videoing and replaying of presenters was useful and constructive, but the role-playing work in the afternoon of day 1 felt a bit aimless.  Hotel accommodation was much better than last time.\
\
\
\
\
Great session\
\
Nicky is an excellent trainer.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The primary reason why I have rated the course so highly is down to the skills and knowledge of our trainer, Karen Hinton.\
\
\
\
This course has provided skills that will be very useful for my job\
\
\
As ever really enjoyed the two days.  Felt we covered a lot but in a subtle and nicely structured way.  Allowing all participants to present was useful as the feedback changed each time and the points where ones we could all relate to and apply.  One point is that we could do with the feedback and documents back quicker as it would be useful to have this to refresh the memory sooner.\
I found the course fascinating, challenging and hugely useful. I look forward to using the insights gained to better communicate and present with colleagues and clients. I really enjoy the interactive nature of the course and the trainers are excellent.\
\
Good tools / mechanisms where given to us to enable effective communication. Now a case of putting them into action\
Booking the course was pretty long exercise. You do not really get any idea what to take or do unless you send an email and than you are able to get a response - quite quickly which is a positive. \
\
\
We would like to receive the link to the course notes collated over the two days in a timely manner as it is easy to forget what we have learnt and the nature of the course meant that we did not take notes individually.\
Fantastic trainers, built excellent trust and communication with the attendees and meant the sessions were very open and honest. The content of the 2 days was very relevant to all people in the room, and being able to see and discuss everyone's presentations was even more useful than the presentation that I did myself. Learnt a lot from the 2 days and putting them into practice already. Looking forward to the next one.\
The course continues to be really helpful, offering theoretical and practical analysis to help in key areas. I found the focus on presentation styles in this 2-day session to be particularly useful and know I will be able to incorporate what I've learnt into my job easily\
Content and materials on the days were excellent, however it would be good to receive the material promptly so that this learning content can be applied or reviewed in line with our everyday tasks in the workplace. It has been nearly a month now and it is all becoming a bit distant. \
\
\
\
depending on experience in room would be good to have the course tailored a little different as some basic knowledge can take up time and the course could have been done in 2 days instead of 4. other than that was really good course and enough to go back to start using the system\
\
I liked the relaxed atmosphere, not a rigid agenda (at least appearance wise). The key thing I learnt was honing presentation skills to make presentation more engaging.  It was also nice to spend time with a group of people from different areas of the business that I would never normally have any dealings with.\
Excellent trainers, excellent facilities, good content.  Certainly thought provoking. Not sure I'd use all of what was discussed but certainly helps to promote thought about how to present and what the best techniques in certain situations are.\
\
\
Would be very advantageous to use our own dataso I have a better understanding of how our reports are put together, something to consider in the future.\
Felt like it was a bit padded out and possibly could have been done in one day. \
Brilliant course, explained how business objects works really well. I liked being able to build my own reports which will be really useful for my role. Really liked Nicky's training style.\
Excellent course, learnt a lot, good pace, easy to understand\
More times should be spent on the Variables and querying\
\
All very clear and the workshop sheets solidified the information that had just gone over.\
\
\
\
Found it very clear and helpful, I feel much more comfortable now with a grounding on how this tool works and what its capabilities are.\
Fantastic course at a good pace.  Small group could make sure everyone understood all sections and move to the next.\
\
\
\
Very interesting and helpful. Probably a bit more advanced than I will use at work but still helpful\
\
Overall good introduction to SQL. \
\
\
The course was fantastic and it was clear everyone learnt a lot from the 2 days. Being able to watch back the presentations was worthwhile, and I actually picked up more from watching and discussing others' presentations so getting to see everyone present twice was definitely worthwhile. The trainers are both excellent and have a great partnership and also interaction with the attendees. Looking forward to the next part of the course.\
very good\
\
\
\
\
Perfect for my requirement - pace was just right with plenty of opportunities to practice.  Documentation clear.  Facilities and refreshments ideal.\
Good overall introduction to Tableau. I feel I have a good overall knowledge. \
Absolutely fantastic, so exciting to go back and create very nice dashboards for my business, they will be surely impressed\
\
The trainer was very good and clear in her presentation and explanations.\
The trainer was very patient and helpful and was very happy to share additional knowledge beyond the scope of the course.  The course was entirely user focussed.\
\
\
There was a good pace to the course with a nice mix of practical work, theory and Q&A.  I particularly enjoyed the workshops.  The course manual was well written and easy to follow and should be an invaluable source of guidance when using the software post-course.\
Kare, our trainer, was excellent.\
\
\
\
\
Nicky is a great high energy trainer who kept me engaged throughout the day with the business objects content. I think the level it is at is pitched at just about right for my needs and I will go away and explore further.\
\
\
A potted and varied course that touches on the more advanced options of IDT. Interesting for the most part with some valuable insights.\
IDT Advanced has got many features tips and tricks which cannot be covered in two days. It would have been good to have more days so we can practise and ask questions. The content is good but a lot of time is spent in understanding complex issues.\
I think that the content was too low a level for the audience attending the training.  There was no flexibility to amend this.  Also we had no defined structure to the course.\
\
\
Made a complicated subject interesting and kept me engaged throughout.\
\
Very Helpful to build on knowledge of Business Objects\
Very well put together course taught by a patient and knowledgeable instructor. It was a steep learning curve for me, but I learnt a lot. Thank you.\
course and trainer excellent, \
Very intuitive course and very helpful trainer. I think I've learnt a lot trough it. \
Great course - trainer was great  looked after us\
Very good teaching method and course was run at a good pace which kept it engaging.\
excellent\
Excellent\
\
\
\
enjoyed the course, would have been nice to see the latest version ie 4.1 on the training system, would have liked to see more advance administration\
\
\
The Trainer was an extremely nice person, with a kind approach.  Unfortunately there were limitations with communications due to hearing, which lost us time through repeating questions.  Also, sometimes I think the Trainer did not hear the question correctly and did not give the expected answers/irrelevant answers.  The course, although followed a logical flow with subjects, the Trainer did not deliver the sections in a fluid way and often veered off in all directions without coming back to the first point.  The demo system did not work fully and was full of old data and as such some of the set up was corrupt and so our exercises could not be fully completed due to permissions, which lost time in on the spot fixes.  The Trainer was under the impression that the course was 5 days and not 4, so we had to skimp on content on the last day.  We only rushed through the Web Assistant due to lack of time and also this was not working on the demo system, so we had no opportunity to see it working fully or perform exercises.  The Guided Tours did not work properly due to old system resources and so we did not get chance to work on this and see it working correctly.  Losing day 5 we did not see the integration with Solution Manager (although on the Agenda the Trainer said he new little about it)  and BPM, WorkArea Migration, Importing and Exporting of WorkAreas, fully working Web Assistant and nothing to do with eLearning and SCORM (it was spoken about briefly but not to the satisfaction of the attendees).  We spent one whole morning on installations, which were more for IT Admin and even though it was suggested we move on to more usage the Trainer carried on.\
I didn't find the training engaging enough and felt the course agenda was meant for pure trainers and not consultants. Even the dummy system was full load of rubbish data which made things more confusing for everybody while practising some of the stuff.  I found it difficult to keep myself engaged for the duration of the course and it was partly down to the trainer not been able to explain few things. I don't think the course was worth the money I assume SAP are charging.\
\
\
\
Really thoroughly enjoyed the course.  David was very patient and informative; he took us through at our own pace.  Explained everything perfectly and the course material was very easy to follow and utilise. I can see the benefits of using Tableau already in my day to day job and can't wait to get started! Venue was extremely welcoming and had excellent facilities as well.  Hopefully will be back to take the advance course.\
I very much enjoyed this course. The training was very easy to follow and explanatory.  I highly recommend it to anyone.  I will definitely be using these new skills in my current job and beyond.\
\
Course was very well lead Karen customised  without her knowing what experience we all had.\
considering the fact there was a lot of info to get through as it was 5 days worth condensed into 2 days I thought it was taught at a good pace and was easy to follow and understand\
room was a little too hot\
\
room very uncomfortable as too hot everything else was really good!\
Room was a bit warm / stuffy. Otherwise very good.\
Very clear and easy to understand with plenty of time to take in the information\
Very well designed and thorough course which will be useful going forwards .\
Having read my colleagues Advanced book prior to coming I think I was a bit pessimistic but actually found it more eye-opening then I thought as I had only a mild experience with a few variations of the formulae. I found the course quite interesting and the trainer very knowledgeable and glad I did the course.\
Really useful course... Suspect I will find advanced as useful too and will look to get on this soon. \
\
Brilliant course. Loads of useful information which will make working with Tableau easy. Excellent trainer :)\
\
Great course but for beginners there should be a gap between the standard and advanced course. This would give time to practice and get used to tableau.\
\
\
Trainer has been excellent. \
coffee not great!! :o))) and could we have some juice or cordial? :o)\
Fantastic training, very helpful presenter will be recommending other staff \
\
\
Excellently lead course, easy to understand and follow. \
All the equipment worked well, minor exception was the broken air condition on the first day.\
Good course Trainer was good  Booking confirmation took along time to come through and had to be chased \
This course was a good pace, it didn't feel too complicated but I still feel I've learnt a lot\
A lot packed into 2 days... my brain is fried.  :o)\
very well paced\
\
\
Really enjoyed the interactive nature of the course and being able to absorb the content verbally, visually but also by getting involved and feeling the different styles of the content.  This was really helpful and glad it wasn't death by powerpoint.\
\
I particularly enjoyed the way the course felt quite ad-hoc and free flowing, including the flexibility to touch on specific subjects we raised as we went along, but still covered off the topics indicated in the agenda.  Administration and facilities for the course itself were fine, the hotel less so.\
Good content with flexibility to add questions/cover additional topics. Really useful 3 days. Sometimes some of the material felt a little under-prepared (as if the training was being revisited after a while - whilst always got the answer, just felt like some things could have been better tested beforehand (some of the SQL checks etc.) - would be nice for training materials to work off the newer version\
\
\
Very informative well run course \
\
Very good\
not used BO in years so bit fast for me\
\
\
This was really useful and well structured. I came expecting to end up with a view the PowerBI didn't have a place in our SAP focused business, but I can see where, if used well, & with data governance in place, it could be a good platform to deploy.  Would recommend to others, although I might have found it trickier if I didn't already have a BI and BusinessObjects background.\
\
Excellent thank you \
Great communication skill and good tutor\
Fitted in lots in one day but didn't feel rushed\
Easy to follow the Business Objects course and more hands on and interactive experience rather than just listening.\
Really comprehensive overview of Webi with lots of good hands on exercises so we could learn by doing - Karen was a very knowledgeable and engaging trainer.\
\
\
Good pace and covered lots of content in a day which I will definitely be able to use going forward.\
\
Good course. Easy to understand. Delivered in a clear and concise manner. Good training venue. Would be good if fruit is provided.\
Good Course, Great tutor.\
Excellent course and excellent trainers.  Thought provoking and provided a large amount of collateral to work on personal performance.\
The actual venue for the training was excellent and would highly recommend we continue the next module there.  DO NOT put us in the Premier Inn at Charing Cross station!  The training itself was excellent.  Asma and Katie are a very dynamic duo and provided a very engaging course which flowed very well.  The group of high potentials from Itelli also helped and it was great to learn with people who you typically don't interact with normally.  Looking forward to the next part.\
\
With over 10 years of experience I thought there would be limited benefit to the course however I was presently surprised as to how much I learned from it \
\
very informative and well delivered with effective workshops\
Very useful and informative\
Good practical course where the user learns how to use the system by doing.\
\
Excellent trainer, really friendly and knowledgeable. Would prefer to have the same trainer again.\
\
\
Really good course, material was great, interactions were well supported. Highly recommend\
A bit more alignment between the materials displayed on screen (ppt and examples) and the materials given would have been welcome. Also an overall agenda of which materials to be shown everyday is necessary. \
Would be nice to spend longer covering more complex elements and also to see a dashboard itelligence have created themselves.\
Karen was very patient and extremely helpful. I found the course very informative.\
\
Very thorough introduction to reporting with many topics covered in one day. Good basis to go back to work and start building some reports.\
Great trainers, content, facilities and co-trainees!\
Firstly thank you to Asma and Katie for providing there experience, knowledge and insight in such an energetic, empathetic and fun way over the course of the two days. I loved it! In addition, I felt the course content provided clarity on management style and approach up and above dealing with day to day operations, with peers and senior management.  I enjoyed being able to reflect on current skills and areas I know I can improve on ie take a pause, tap into various previous experiences/emotions and determine the best course of action, rather than jump straight in.  Thank you  Nic\
\
\
\
\
If there was an option to rate the course and the trainer even higher, I would have.  Exceeded expectations in all areas.\
\
\
Good mix of training presentations and hands-on practical work\
Covered a lot of material.  Karen went above and beyond expectations.\
Karen ran the course with the end user experience in mind, which was good!  There was no going through irrelevant sections and the pace was targeted toward the existing experience of the attendees.\
Excelllent admin, facilities, hospitality\
\
Excellent Trainer, answered all my questions with very good details\
very helpful and always happy to answer questions.  Great technical knowledge with practical examples.   \
Great course and knowledge gained\
Excellent content and tailored to the right speed for the delegates.\
Course contents need to reflect the new features are being introduced in 4.2\
Excellent training delivered very clearly... thanks Karen!\
Trainer was very patient and helpful. Very knowledgeable in the field and great to be around!\
\
Very helpful\
\
\
Very informative\
Nicky was fabulous despite the equipment failing her and a struggle for a number of people with the system performing slowly or crashing.  She was flexible, re-arranging the course content to deal with circumstances, patient with different skills levels and knowledgeable answering questions as they arose\
very interesting and thorough course. Flexible enough to adapt to the needs of the group.\
\
\
\
\
\
Really enjoyed the course - would like it to move a little faster at times \
The course started off a little slow but it soon picked up its momentum. Really enjoyed the interactive practical exercises to emphasis the discussion topics and provoke thought.  Great  trainers. They both came across as very knowledgeable in their field.\
The only thing that I would change is that I felt that it could have done with a more active start. There was a general conversation at the start on subjects that were not directly to do with the course that went on a bit too long - maybe just break that up with some activity.  That small point aside, I thought it was an excellent, thought-provoking course and I can already see the benefits it has brought me in my day to day tasks. I like the format of the days and the fact that they are quite flexible in terms of the direction taken and that they are genuinely influenced by the comments and input from the delegates.    Asma Mansuri is a very wise trainer and led the group well. Asma was ably supported by James, who mainly directed the 'games'.\
There wasn't a preconfigured plan for the course as the group hadn't met before, which turned out to be beneficial as it allowed Asma to tailor the content to the needs of the group. I found the two days engaging and look forward to the next session.\
a few error in the course material but generally a great course being the only student! Tailored for me\
Course was comprehensive and training instructor was very knowledgeable.\
\
I found the course to be really enjoyable and I think this was mostly down to how it was delivered.  All too often these courses follow the format of a PowerPoint presentation punctuated with exercises in which teams work together and then present back to the group.  This course was different in that Asma & James made no use of PowerPoint at all which allowed the whole course to be far more discussion based.  The exercises also didn\'82\'c4\'f4t just stick to the format described above.  They were often entertaining activities that helped demonstrate the situations that people with leadership responsibility have to deal with day to day.  I have to admit I am sometimes a little cynical about how useful these types of courses are but this one worked for me.\
Nicky is absolutely brilliant. Her knowledge of the subject is quite amazing. I will definitely recommend Itelligence to other colleagues in my sector.\
demo installation was not fully reset / cleaned\
\
I thought that the course was very thought provoking. I learnt a number of key considerations, and tips which I can now put into practice in my team lead role. Overall I thought the trainers where very good, and my colleagues on the course where also a good bunch of people.\
The content of the course was just what our team required, all of the functionality of Web Intelligence that we will require was presented and explained thoroughly and clearly by David\
Would have liked to have more hands on exercises\
Excellent - very professional \
The content was very relevant and Asma and James quickly got the group engaged and we all enjoyed working together.  Both trainers listened to our requirements and were able to adapt the content/examples to cover areas that were important to us.  I am looking forward to the next training session and building on what we have learnt so far.\
\
Asma is a very personable, likable person and she had a lot of interesting stories to share with us. The course was very thought provoking and touched on some very relevant topics to do with leadership, values, management and even psychology, philosophy and neuroscience, so an interesting mix that got us all thinking. It was also a good mix of conversation, games and straight forward teaching, so the days flew by and were certainly not tedious. The atmosphere was 'physiologically safe' so we could share our thoughts and feelings.  The only point for improvement would be the fact that some of the stories shared did not seem to be very relevant to the course and I did not feel the first morning was very productive, but the pace quickly picked up in the afternoon and by the end of the 2 days there was a lot to contemplate on and left with a very positive feeling.  I am looking forward to the next module.\
\
The trainers were excellent - they were able to make the course both enjoyable and informative. They were also able to seamlessly help the group to become cohesive really quickly and this is due to the trainers being able to make the environment comfortable and provide an open forum. I look forward to the next ones. \
Overall the course is very good and very useful for us as I am using the same in my current job I got a foundation level knowledge.\
Thank you so much x\
Well paced and thorough\
Maybe could of done a few bits a bit quicker but apart from that great pace and have gained some valuable knowledge\
\
\
\
\
\
overall she was fantastic trainer. I have been to few training but this is the best training where I did not get bored or felt sleepy. \
Everything excellent!... well done.\
Course pace at the right level for me. Relaxed and yet covered a lot of ground.\
I have really enjoyed this course - the pace was set really nicely and I feel that I have a good theoretical and practical knowledge of Webi after the two days. Karen was very friendly and very open to questions and the facilities were great. Thank you very much. \
Thorough introduction to the software. Good course as materials and facilities. Karen was great at explaining things clearly and answering a wide range of questions. The skills I learnt here will be very useful in my new role.\
Booking the course was a bit slow and confirmed very close to course.\
\
\
training doc didn't arrive until lunchtime on a 1 day course, oops.\
\
\
\
\
Slightly slow start and some issues with the projector, but very good overall. For the Warwick site you need a label on your access intercom please.\
\
\
\
\
Awesome course.. really learned more about SAP BO admin\
\
I really enjoyed (mostly!) the additional challenges within the Advanced course having completed the standard design course in the two days previous.  Once again, Karen was excellent.  After the 3 days, I feel much more able and confident to build reports in Webi.  I have no doubt that me and my employers will benefit greatly.\
Would be good to update times on the training invites to reflect start/end times when organising travel.   Very informative course and trainer. Open to off topic questions around webi as well.  Picked up some useful tips as well as consolidating previous knowledge (nice to know on right track). \
Really good course, well presented. \
\
Very much enjoyed this course and was a very good follow up to the initial report design course I also attended late last year. This course built on the skills from last time very well, pushed my knowledge of Web Intelligence much further and I have learnt a lot of great new more advanced skills to take into my work environment.\
\
\
Great for understanding the main features of Design Studio and how to use it.  The only addition I would have liked was more insight on using with SAP BW directly. Overall, a really good course, and has been very useful to me.\
Excellent trainer and great training environment.  And, of course, the lunch on each day was unexpected and a very nice touch.\
\
Brilliant - really good content and delivery - well balanced and attentive to specific needs. Exactly what I wanted.\
Well led.  Even as a new user I felt I could keep up.\
\
I feel the course is very comprehensive from the perspective of using the system. However I wanted to understand more about how M&G use the system. The types of reports we create and the limitations we have encountered.  I feel the trainer was very good and had great knowledge of the system, however I feel this would have benefited if someone from M&G was here too\
\
Very clear and comprehensive. Went above and beyond what I was expecting coming into the course.\
\
\
\
\
Very useful Course  - will need to see how to apply back with our data  + very good trainer\
Very useful course - will be good to see how this can be implemented in our data set + very good trainer...\
Really great course with Karen, would definitely recommend doing this immediately after the Fundamentals course as so much of the course content is relevant plus you build a great rapport with the trainer.\
Impressed that lunch was included!\
Excellent course\
\
\
\
\
All Good\
The course was very good as it covered all the main functionality that is needed to use Webi and Karen was able to answer any questions asked regarding anything covered within the course. \
I haven't previously used this software, however I found the trainer very good and now feel confident with it. Many thanks.\
:-)\
\
\
Pitched at the right level however the merging section dimensions section I thought was too complicated for this initial course.\
\
David was very clear and concise in explaining the martial. \
\
Trainer good.  Room too small and could not see screen as there was someone right in front of me for tw\
\
very good course, insightful and detailed. well explained.\
The course was really good and I appreciated the practical examples.  I believe the Advanced one will add even more value. Thank you!\
\
\
Enjoyable course, I learned a lot.\
well paced  - fitted a lot of functions into a short time\
Great refresher training. Slightly long intro, I would have preferred to learn a few more advanced skills as the morning was a bit slow but this was probably very useful for people who don't use BI all the time so no complaints. Overall very good. \
\
It was a very interesting and well planned out course.\
The course was just at the right level for me, not too simple and not too difficult\
Excellent trainer and content \
\
it was really helpful and well paced \
\
\
Excellent course, the trainer was clear and informative. We learned a lot of useful tips which I can use in day to day work. I would like to do the intermediate course. \
\
My mouse did not work properly, and the page numbering of the booklet was confusing. The latter point was clarified, but not immediately. Other than that I found the course extremely useful and well delivered.\
\
Good\
\
Very Informative\
\
\
\
Good content, right pace with the flexibility to allow specific examples.\
\
\
Clear explanations, very willing to help out when I got stuck and happy to answer any 'extra curricular' questions.\
Really good, clear course. Almost perfect, only thing is that, even being a debutant, I found some topics a bit simple and not worth spending so much time on.\
\
\
\
Great course for a beginner, friendly staff + trainer \
Excellent and thorough training as usual.  \
\
\
\
\
\
The training was very well presented and the trainer was very knowledgeable and patient througout.\
\
Very intuitive and really enjoyed the course. \
\
\
\
The course is very well laid out and extremely detailed with an excellent course hand book which I can use for future reference if I need it. All the examples were planned very well where I could link back to my work environment. Mark is an excellent trainer with a lot of patience as I didn't always know the answer from the word go! being the only member on the course, I do have to say thank you for allowing the course to still go ahead as this meant I could link all the examples back to my work making it easier for me to understand. \
This was an amazing course with a really great trainer.  I've learned so much about IDT and am going to apply my new knowledge immediately.  Many thanks to Karen.\
I felt the course was ideal for beginners but not suitable for someone with basic experience (no fault of the course).  The way it was structured and the size of the group was great.  Very relaxed and informative with an open environment to talk in.\
Great Course, Fantastic Instructor.\
Trainer was very knowledgeable and happy to answer all queries - highly recommended. \
Course was well structured and informative - will be of great use when i get back to office. Really worthwhile training session.\
\
Very Useful!\
\
Overall, it was a really good course.  However, the noise from the building works did cause disruption on the first day and were really not helpful.\
Karen's delivery of the course material was perfectly pitched.\
A little rushed at times with little opportunity for note-taking, but overall excellent. Building work not ideal! :-)\
\
Brilliant initial course on the topic of business objects, I will definitely be returning to do the advanced courses to grow my knowledge further.  Karen was an engaging trainer who kept the two days very interesting . mixing between demonstration and allowing us to work out things with hands on practice.\
Found this to be a very useful course. Karen was an excellent trainer.\
\
\
The course surpassed my expectations, and the trainer was fantastic\
Covered a lot of content, very useful and BOXI looks simple to use\
Thought the course was excellently delivered at an easy pace without rush and without feeling sluggish. instructor was knowledgeable and extremely helpful\
Trainer very professional.  systems are very slow and need more examples to practice.\
\
\
Very clear + easy to follow great structure and workshops\
well structured & clearly explained\
\
The workshop exercises could be more complicated\
\
There were a few useful points mentioned by the trainer not shown in the manual\
\
\
\
\
\
Very good course, Great teacher (very knowledgeable and friendly).  For a day-course its very well built.\
\
\
it would be nice to practice in our own universe but great course for beginers\
\
\
Excellent knowledge, clear delivery style, good pace\
\
\
\
Excellent approach including concerns and queries from delegates, good pace & enjoyable style\
content very helpful and relevant. Even learnt some devices that would improve our reporting. Enjoyed this course. \
\
V relaxed and clear/informative cheers\
well structured and nicely presented\
\
useful content & well taught. handily tailored to business needs\
\
Excellent course, very well delivered.\
\
A thoroughly  enjoyable course.  Good trainer and excellent course materials\
Excellent course and instructor. Would recommend.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
pace of sessions and knowledge of trainer made most of day\
excellent course\
brochure large - would we use all of this?\
\
\
the course was good but would have been more interesting if BW was used as datasource\
\
more on bw data sources\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
practice more on some or queries + exercises\
the course was great\
the course was really helpful for me the trainer did a great job \
\
The trainer has been explaining everything in details with very good examples.\
\
Excellent!\
Delivery was excellent. Looking at the screen and doing the walkthroughs was very helpful.  During the exercises any questions raised where answered and assistance provided.\
\
Would be good to start and end a little earlier, so can finish slightly earlier on the last day\
I found the very informative. I needed to understand the basics initially but I've come away from the course and I think I'll be able to create very intelligent looking dashboards from just a fundamentals course. Nicky was a very good teacher and I thoroughly enjoyed the two day course.\
\
Course joining instructions arrived very late after frequent requests but apart from that all was excellent!\
nice course, learnt lots :)\
\
\
A well run course that met our needs and provider was flexible in her approach to the course material.\
\
\
Some of the stuff I already knew due to using similar software like Excel, like holding the control key to select more than one object at a time, the course could have been tailored not to have to mention stuff we already knew. The lunch were good, especially due to the fact they took us to a different place each day.\
\
Trainer was very nice and well knowledge about the subject. Teaching technique is excellent.\
The only reason a star was dropped here was down to the building work going on in other areas of the building which caused some disruption. Understandably this is outside of ITelligence's control\
The course was brilliant. I've attended several professional courses over the years and Karen was by far the best trainer I could have asked for. The structure and materials provided were great. Facilities and staff were also great. Would definitely recommend Itelligence to others and would definitely book another course.\
\
I learned a huge amount in a short amount of time.  May thanks.\
The Tableau course surpassed my expections!  Karen was great.  I would definitely book training at Itelligence again.\
\
Overall, I was very satisfied with this course.\
\
The Tableau course delivered by Karen will help me in my role to a great degree.\
Karen was extremely knowledgeable and paced the course perfectly.  I've come out of the course positive that I can apply my newly gained Tableau knowledge to my live environment.\
Laptops a bit slow to respond\
\
Very well run course with good content\
\
The course was very thorough and the trainer was professional and helpful.\
\
\
\
Very well organised and presented! Professional and friendly setting. Thank you! \
\
Covered the subject well , allowed for questions and create interest in the subject. Worked examples where useful and brought the subject to life\
Karen is friendly and patient and clearly knowledgably about her material. The structure of the course while good can still about improved. Also, while useful in covering the principles, can cover more real life examples that people encounter in average office environments (e.g. badly maintained databases). Still overall she is a good trainer.\
Good course , introduced a lot of functions I was not aware of\
\
\
Excellent course. Would definitely recommend. I do feel that the standard course could be pitched at a slightly greater depth for a small group. Found the additional examples very interesting.\
\
Nicky was amazing. Very knowledgeable and friendly. Went at my own pace and expanded where needed. The books provided by SAP may need some proof reading, but they do provided a lot of content.\
Nicky was very helpful in explaining concepts very well.\
\
This was a great course. We covered a lot of things that will be a massive help in my daily work. Can't wait to get into the office tomorrow to try things out.\
Joining instructions somewhat lacking in information (was something missed?) - start time said 9am, not 9 for 9.30, no mention of if a laptop was needed (so we needlessly brought our own in), no help getting into the building or assistance through secure doors. \
As a new user to Webi, I found the course really useful. It covered the basics but also went into detail which I believe I can take back to my place of work to improve the reporting methods.\
Start time instructions weren't clear and difficulties accessing building but the course and everything else was great\
\
Good content, delivered at a nice pace. Nicky definitely knows her stuff. Thanks\
\
Overall a very good course.\
Open to questions, able to give context, materials clear and easy to follow. \
Great training from Karen, as always!\
\
\
\
Great course, tailored to the areas that I need the most.\
Good content and pace.\
Nicky was insightful and communicated quite clearly. The only drawback was the quick pace of the course over 2 days. An extra day to thoroughly go through the content even more would have been a bonus but this may slow the course down too much so achieving that balance is always a challenge.\
Excellent course overall. It is always difficult to strike a balance between all areas of the course. Great group interaction was directly related to the ability of the presenter. Karen was fantastic to work with. She provided great knowledge and troubleshooting tips as well work arounds and best practices to follow. She was able to offer insights on how to tackle company specific issues.\
Well paced. Clear and concise content with real world examples. Very useful course and well recommended. Thanks. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
As new to this system there was too much to take in in one day, not enough opportunity to 'practice' so exercises were 'difficult'.  Good to have 'reference manual' to go take back and refresh and review against. \
Karen was excellent and maintained a consistent appropriate pace throughout the day. A considerable feat in light that this was a two day course compressed into one day. She set expectations at the outset and ensured the delegates were focused and checked for understanding at several key points; including at transitions between chapters. As the sponsor for the course I was impressed and this has set the bar in terms of future expectations. An excellent course made better by the high quality and professionalism of the trainer.\
Really good day, there was a lot of content but personally I enjoyed the pace of the course and the amount we were able to cover in just one day.  Karen was obviously very knowledgeable and her presenting style was excellent.  \
Content delivered clearly.  Pleasant presentation manner. Professional.   A lot of content for one day though.  Was a little rushed at the end\
\
\
\
\
excellent trainer\
Very knowledgeable about the training modules and areas of BI, well presented and lovely building amenities \
\
\
\
I was extremely pleased with the course and feel that I have learned a lot\
A session post training to reveiew real world examples would be really useful\
This was an advanced course and I had no prior knowledge of Tableau before attending this advanced course, so my knowledge of Tableau has now incrased ten fold.  I do feel that I've missed some of the basics though.  Karen was great at bringing me up to speed with the fundamentals when necessary though.\
\
Karen was a very effectve trainer.  I have now gained many new skills in Tableau.  Overall, a great course with a great trainer.  I'm am very happy with the new skills I have acquired.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Extremely informative, and an easy course to follow\
Found it quite basic in terms of functionality covered but likely due to having some experience with the tool rather than a fault with the course material itself.\
Very good course. Trainer's knowledge of the subject was excellent. Very useful exercise between activity 9 and 13 giving me a good starting knowledge of the product that I can take back to the workplace and use. As always with Itelligence courses there is always plenty of chances to ask questions and relate the course to real work.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent. Possibly just me but I'd have like another day :)\
Very friendly welcome, lovely staff and facilities.  \
Excellent facilities with good trainer. I would have liked an option for a 2 day course for intermediate to advanced users\
Karen was great, very clear and personable. I would liked to have covered more on combined variables and formulas. So I am now looking forward to the advanced course! \
Course was what I was looking for, building on myself taught knowledge and learning new things that will help me in my role. \
Very good introduction to BOXI\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
very detailed and through\
Good Course\
Excellent Course\
\
\
\
The course was informative and will prove useful in my new role. My trainer knew the subject inside out as well as making the course interesting. \
\
Perfect Course, Highly recommended\
\
\
VERY INTRESTING\
\
\
EXCELLENT COURSE\
VERY GOOD\
\
WELL PRESENTED\
\
Nicky was very helpful and knowledgeable, course materials were easy to follow, despite some of them having been changed by a colleague of Nicky's but she made sense of it all and explained any differences which if anything helped me to make more sense of it. I also really enjoyed the lunch every day as well.\
Good technique from trainer. Good pace. More content in book than was covered on the day. \
Very impressed with the location, facilities & service - lovely entry greeting and very polite members of Staff, David knew his stuff and provided varied scenarios where we can use the training given - would happily recommend to others looking for this training.\
Great Training & Trainer. All questions answered brilliantly. Will be glad to come back for the advanced course next month.\
\
The course is great.  I will recommend it, Very small class size and very knowledgeable trainer.  Our position is that we are waiting to upgrade BO and do not yet have access to Lumira.\
Good course and trainer. Lumira a little bit buggy, but not a problem! :)\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Fantastic course and I learnt a lot, much of which I can directly apply to my current job role. I now find that I want to learn more about the subject.  Our trainer Karen was outstanding, explained everything clearly at a pace that was required, also answered other questions I had not directly in the course. Very friendly lady as well :)\
Karen is lovely trainer; very helpful. Many Thanks Karen!! Lovely to meet you :)\
\
\
Very interesting and informative\
\
\
\
the trainer had excellent command of the topic and course material was easy to follow\
would be good to use actual ORS data or have better understanding of it when referring to sections\
it was a very good course - it could probably have been completed within 1 day - have some sandwiches for lunch and shorten breaks should do it\
Very good pace\
Though it may be down to individuals, I personally found the course quite straight forward and feel it could have been completed quicker (though you could argue that is a sign of the level of training that was provided)\
The course was really good and provided a lot of information which will generate some thought about how we take these new skills forward. Our systems are heavily locked down so it will be an interesting challenge to see what we can use. \
Content well explained, opportunity to ask questions as they arose very beneficial.    \
Fabulous course and trainer and have learnt loads\
Thank you for a great training course\
Great Location and facilities\
Mark was clear, knowledgeable + Patient.\
\
Content + Materials very good.\
\
\
\
\
\
Delivered exactly what I needed.\
\
n/a\
Very good session - Sean managed it fantastically and very informative\
Course was a little slow for me.  I appreciate that others may have needed more time and  that's why the course was slow.  It is no reflection on Nicky.  \
Enjoyed the Course, Nicky made very interesting\
\
All good although for me personally, I would have preferred to follow the workbook slightly closer but a bit of homework wilol ensure complete familiarity -not a problem\
\
Easy to follow course. Nicky provided a logical step by step walk through catering for all levels of knowledge\
Really great session, fantastic trainer. Went at a good speed and covered everything required.\
I didn't book the course so unable to comment.  Course and content was really good and very well planned out.  The course started slow but Nicky did cover all aspects by end of the day.  It did not help that one particular attendee kept asking questions.  However, Nicky managed this extremely well. \
Very useful course and the trainer was very easy to follow.  The booklet is handy in order to refer back.  I will be recommending this to my colleagues.   It would have been better for trainer to come to us as I think this will have saved considerably on costs \
\
Excellent course, very comprehensive and well-paced\
Very good training.\
\
\
\
Advised to attend prompt for a 9am start however course did not start until 9.30.  Although lunch was nice it was too long and I would have preferred to spend more time on the course content as this was cut short at the end of the day.  The course was well taught and the trainer was extremely knowledgable.\
\
\
The course was delivered well and at a comfortable pace. Nicky was helpful and did well to answer any questions. The content and design of the course could have been better as I am not sure if i would use all the things covered in the course. \
Excellent trainer\
\
\
\
Was a bit above my expertise level\
\
\
\
\
\
fast pace\
course was good, but felt it was above my level of comprehension \
Course was very good \
clear and great introduction \
excellent course and trainer, enjoyed very much\
Pace of course was initially quite slow but this picked up after lunch on day 1. Day 2 was more appropriate.\
Excellent course and helped in building my existing knowledge of Web Intelligence.\
could do with packing more into the first morning\
Brilliant trainer, nice facilities and revenue. Only comment is that we would apppreciate some business specific examples relating to our actual functions.    \
very good course with a very helpful trainer. Thanks Nicky. \
Great course, learnt loads... was delivered in bite size chunks that made it easy to understand.\
\
\
Found the course very useful, Nicky was great at explaining everything. No criticism to be given. \
Useful course - well suited for beginners. Could be run at slightly quicker pace, particularly day one. \
All fantastic, especially Richard\
Training was excellent \
Training was excellent \
Great Course - have learnt alot\
I found the course very informative\
\
Not sure I needed this level of detail - was certainly good to see however I feel I got more out of the basic course at this stage (having known nothing at all about WebI)  Will look forward to putting it into real life practice. Many Thanks!\
Felt like we could have covered more but what was covered was covered well\
Excellent, very helpful\
\
Very good.  A great deal of content. Materials should support further practise.\
\
\
Really enjoyed the course very insightful.\
So clearly presented, loved the fact that we worked along with Nicky inputting data and had the opportunity to practice with the 'workshops'.  Nicky was fantastic - really enthusiatic and encouraging, more than happy to answer all questions. A big thankyou!\
I found the course very insightful and interactive. Nikki was extremly helpful and was willing to answer business specific questions.\
\
\
\
\
EXCELLENT COURSE\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
WELL DEIVERED AND EXPLAINED - EASY TO UNDERSTAND\
GOOD EXERCISE AND USEFUL COURSE\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very helpful course\
want to see bit of more hands on\
\
\
\
\
Karen is exceptional and she explained with lot of examples and also comparing with old version.\
\
\
\
\
Excellent mix of hands on work and presentation \
\
Good knowledge and good pace of course\
\
\
\
\
\
Laptops crashed a bit\
Perhaps slightly disappointed in the product but this is not a reflection on the training\
Nicely taught course at a reasonable pace (not too fast and not too slow). I felt we covered a good deal in the 2 days.\
I was completely new to DS, and struggled with some of the exercises. I would have preferred to have more time to complete these. Also, the install that I was using seemed to freeze up quite a bit, meaning that I have to re-launch it several times\
\
Trainer is very knowledgeable\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Everything excellent\
\
\
\
\
\
It was a good course, learned many new things, thank you very much\
\
Course required more up to date documentation and documentation of real world examples would be very helpful.\
\
\
\
\
\
Exercises in course materials confusing in places\
\
\
\
Great pace of teaching and level of understanding.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Well-paced course with good examples and explanations along the way.\
Some mistakes in the documentation needed correction\
\
\
\
Trainer was very clear and confirmed understanding at each point..\
Course content was good, and was a good use of demo - rather than death by powerpoint\
\
\
\
\
\
Good Knowledge shared by the trainer\
Great course, really enjoyed it and David was an excellent instructor, happy to offer advice and answer many, many questions.\
Some slides a little out of date but the instructor was very knowledgeable, and I learnt a lot\
\
\
\
\
\
IT WAS A GREAT COURSE, EASY TO UNDERSTAND, GOOD PACE, CLEAR INFORMATION AND EXERCISE\
\
\
\
Great teacher, who give understandable course, helpful practice and advices.\
\
Excellent course, knowledgeable trainer and well delivered. SAP manual could do with some instructions being re written by SAP. \
NICE INFORMATION ABOUT REPORTING TOOLS\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
This custom course will revolutionise my use of Web Intelligence.  No exaggeration!  Thank you Karen.\
Very clear instructions for all levels of attendee\
\
The course was extremely useful\
The course was very appropriate to my requirements and I feel that all my objectives in attending have been fully met.\
I though the course was very insightful and met my objectives excellently.  I have learned much about the concept and design processes of Universe Design.  I now have the confidence to test.\
Very good and informative course.  Excellent.  Thank you very much.\
I thought the course met my key objectives very well.  Overall, the course was very appropriate, but the usefulness has yet to be determined.\
I learned much more from the course than I expected.  Some modules weren't relevant, but I do feel that the course met and even exceed my objectives.\
I feel that my objectives for the course have been fully met.  The course was very useful, but I need to put into practice what I've learned.\
I found the course to be very useful and felt that my objectives were fully met.\
Would like the manual to include some step by step instructions.  Overall, the course was very useful, but I am not likely to use the software on a regular basis.\
EXPERTLY DELIVERED \
EXCELLENT COURSEN+ TRAINER\
\
\
Some of the materials could do with being updated and some of the tasks do not always follow a logical path.\
The course was very good but there were elements that were a bit rushed.  The trainer did mention that the course was previously a 4 day course that was now condensed into 3 days.  I think it would have been much better over the 4 days with more time to spend on some of the exercises in order to gain a better understanding of some of the more complex issues.   Overall the facilities were good but the room was cold (even though the temp normally said 22*) and the desks a little cramped.\
\
.\
\
\
EXCELLENT TRAINING - VERY KNOWLEDGEABLE TRAINER + WELL PACED SESSION\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very clear tutoring with a good range of learning & activities\
Excellent course for beginners. Maybe too little in detail for those who have experience of IDT or Universe Designer, but for me it was perfect. A nice selection of workshop activities to go through as well - perhaps more time on Day 3 could be attributed to more working examples?\
\
\
\
VERY GOOD COURSE OVERALL\
\
\
VERY GOOD CONTENT KNOWLEDGEABLE TRAINER\
\
\
\
\
\
\
GREAT COURSE, INFORMATIVE BY THE TRAINER\
\
\
Very Happy Overall\
Very Happy Overall\
Very Happy Overall\
Very Happy Overall\
Very Happy Overall\
Great course - need to practice, practice, practice...\
\
Overall this has given us a good grounding in report design and understanding of Webi functionality via BO as we came here with very little experience.   We look forward to taking these newly learned skills to our workplace to begin to improve our daily / weekly / monthly business and management reporting. \
Good course,  well structured and delivered by Nicky. \
Great course, got exactly what I needed out of it. Instructor was able to answer all questions and delivered at a good pace. \
Great instructor. Enthusiastic, knowledgeable and realistic about capability of tool. Really enjoyed the course\
Very good course, learned a lot of new techniques, the newer version (4.1 onwards) is a lot more user friendly than previous versions. trainer was very clean and instruction was clear and understandable.\
Having done the course of a previous version a few years ago this was a nice refreshment, it was also valuable in the fact that I learned some new techniques and how the newer versions work, overall the new versions are a lot more user friendly compared to the latter, course instructor was very knowledgeable and answered all questions that were asked.\
Good quality course which will assist with the upgrade to BO 4.2.  \
Course kept a good pace, trainer was very knowledgeable and friendly. Overall I feel that I gained what I was expecting from the course and look forward to the advanced module tomorrow!\
Nicky is a very enthusiastic and knowledgeable trainer. Really enjoyed the course and looking forward to accessing the product when it is available for us to use.\
Excellent relaxed training style.  Facilities, coffees, lunch etc all catered for very well.  Thank you.\
\
\
\
\
Enjoyable and the pace was good.\
\
\
\
Very beneficial course with excellent trainers. The course run very smooth with a perfect mix of tuition and excercises \
Great course, perfect pace and a good introduction to a new tool. I really like David's style of teaching - a nice mix of training book content and working examples! Thanks!\
\
The Course book is out of date and has incorrect examples and exercises. I encountered issues with Contexts which David tried to fix on a number of occasions, but the errors prevented me from completing a number of the exercises.  This made me feel confused and frustrated at times. \
this course was great but the material need to be updated because it contains a lot of mistakes in the exercises while we are performing some of them \
The course material is out of date in several places and needs to be updated.\
\
\
\
Lots to cover, so went through it very fast, but easy to follow\
Course content was very indepth and manual are great to reference. I would say that connecting back in to live work environment appeared to cause distraction for some who could not get away from their daily work\
\
\
\
\
Very good - enjoyed going through the exercise in particular.\
\
Excellent course - detailed explanation of product with good materials and interactive workshops\
Good mix between interactive and lecture material. I feel as though I have acquired the necessary Lumira skills.\
Good engagement considering medium (Webex) & excellent technical knowledge & advise on practical application.\
bit more about day to  day use of boxi - deployments etc and bit more about clustering and various setups of servers  Nicky was good teacher anything she couldn't answer was referred on\
\
Very Very slow could easily be condensed to 1-2 days without losing informationn\
\
A very well run course. just the right amount of presenting, particpant work and breaks and i feel that i can take the content and work with it. \
I found the course very useful and David was engaging throughout. Probably needed more time on some exercises but overall it was well paced and pitched.\
\
\
Excellent course at the right level.  Course material explained well.\
Good pacing for a dry subject. Tuition was first class.\
\
\
\
\
Too cold initially. but OK now warmed up ;)\
\
Course was VERY slow, however trainer was very knowledgeable. Room was new and air conditioning not working properly, was freezing in morning and too hot in the afternoon\
\
A well paced and thought out course. Thank you\
Easy to follow and delivered with everybody in mind.\
Excellent Tuition and Facilities\
Excellent - enjoyable and very well presented\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
VERY IMFORMATIVE, GOOD WORKSHOP.\
VERY CLEAR USEFUL FOR ALL LEVELS OF BUSINESS\
\
\
\
\
\
VERY GOOD \
\
\
COURSE VERY WELL DELIVERED\
\
\
\
\
Trainer was very helpful and very personable.  I think the content could have been squeezed down in to about a day and a hlaf but I'm pretty technically minded so perhaps longer was needed for some to understand the included content.  Even so I think 2 days would have been enough.\
Good overview and enough depth to get us started. The pace was managed well given the mixed group of experience and backgrounds. Kit and materials were good and David was an enthusiastic and engaging trainer.\
The course was interesting and well delivered but a bit slow at times. Could probably have been condensed to two days in my opinion.\
Very well presented course, supporting documentation was very helpful and a lot of planning had clearly been put into the delivery\
\
Karen is awesome\
\
Very Good course and would recommend it to the BI team\
\
\
\
\
\
\
I was very satisfied with the course and felt that it met all its objectives\
This was a really good course with an excellent trainer.  I will definitely recommend intelligence training to others.\
Very useful and informative.  I learnt so much on this course.  The trainer was really knowledgeable and organised.\
\
A pity the E fashion dataset is not updated but Karen again explained everything and answered queries extremely well and has given me a good grounding on the new Webbi, not to practice what I've learnt.  Thanks again  Karen \
\
The trainer was very approachable and interactive.  He demonstrated a lot a patience with the group and was very happy to assist everyone with the queries.\
\
\
\
The course was interesting but does not need to be over 2 days, I feel that the course material could have easily been covered within a half day session.\
Overall, a well paced and easy to follow course and ideally tailored for participants of all levels from beginner stage. However, some parts of the course were skipped for no really clear reason, and the latter stages were a bit hard to grasp quickly and probably needed a bit more time. On a purely personal level, we were well looked after and I really appreciated the free lunch and refreshments, but I felt the trainer should have sat with more of us over the two lunches, and not just the same half of the group.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
GREAT COURSE\
WELL STUDIED AND ENJOYABLE COURSE\
VERY APPROACHABLE, RELAXED STYLE. ALL QUESTIONS WELL ANSWERED. EXCELLENT KNOWLEDGE OF SUBJECT\
\
TRAINER REALLY KNOWLEDGABLE\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The course was a different level than I was expecting. \
\
A very informative course.  I really felt that I learnt a lot.\
The course was very much above expections\
Great course to help develop BI understanding\
\
\
\
\
Katen was really nice in explaining the concepts and did cover all the scenarios. This training was very useful \
Trainer was very knowledgeable.\
\
\
\
\
\
Really good course, well planned and explained, and great office.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
1st day was not really anything to do with admin or security, that started on the 2nd day so the course could of been 1 day\
\
\
Pace a bit too slow for me, and break lengths were set but not stuck too, could have been done in a day .\
\
\
Overall Excellent.\
Informative course with personable and friendly trainer. Hospitality was excellent\
\
\
\
\
Good course, learnt a lot :)\
was good, the graph section was a little dry , and coudve had more on the dashboards and inforaphics etc\
TRAINER WAS VERY FRIENDLY AND HELPFUL\
MORE ADVANCED AND MORE COMPACT.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very Happy with Course\
\
Good range of exercises allowing me to get a good understanding of the system as a first time user. Also made me aware of additional courses that will ne very beneficial to myself and my organisation. \
Training was clear an concise, very helpful on answering questions and promoted questions to be asked. gave good hints and tips on how we may support the system and some good tips.\
\
\
\
Very good course in itself.  However, Karen also covered some additional material which is not included in the manual.  Some of this additional functionality I found to be very useful.\
\
Excellent course, very well delivered by Karen\
Very good course.\
\
Karen ran the course at an excellent pace, which was suited to all who were attending.  She also checked regularly on each individuals progress to ensure that that learning was achieved and the pace of delivery was correct.\
\
\
GREAT COURSE & TRAINER\
\
\
\
\
FANTASTIC TRAINER, MADE THE COURSE EASY TO FOLLOW\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Course was very well run and at a good pace. Very interactive and the chance to ask questions as we went along.  Examples were good and a chance to put what we learnt into practice which is always beneficial. Opportunity to speak to trainer during breaks on elements of work which were not necessarily covered in detail.\
DIFFICULT COURSE BUT THIS IS NOT DOWN TO THE COURSE BUT DOWN TO THE FACT I SHOULD HAVE ATTENDED THE BEGINNERS COURSE FIRST \
good course covered in depth content that will help develop good reporting\
\
Enjoyable course with a lot of great content.  \
\
\
\
\
Very Useful.\
TRAINER WAS VERY CLEAR\
\
A good introduction course, learnt a lot of new skills to utilise and trainer had good knowledge\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very well explained, although a little repetitive in terms of tasks\
\
Useful to see available uses of the Lumira software. Software seems to have some minor bugs which could become very frustrating with extensive use. Hopefully this will be ironed out in the next version\
Enjoyable course, I think that the Story Board element can be covered in a shorter amount of time though.\
Very friendly and helpful teacher throughout the course. The lunches were a nice touch too!\
\
\
Very well delivered and informative\
Found it very useful to be made aware of the possibilities of the software\
\
great teacher\
Very Clear and easy to understand & follow\
Good that trainer has extensive real-world experience of BO.v3\
couldnt find the  course for universe designer in bo4.1 as it had changed its name to IDT, but intelligence allowed quick swap.\
\
A lot of material covered at a great pace.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Enjoyed the course and found it useful. \
\
\
Thoroughly engaged, good use of different skills\
The course was well run, the location and amenities were well organised and accessible. The topics that were covered were done so in great detail and were well supported by the trainer. The only wish I have is that the course covered more, however I understand that this was a .small group and therefore we were able to cover the syllabus more swiftly\
Really enjoyed the course overall. Simon had some really useful 'in life' (war stories) which really helped paint a picture.  Would recommend the course.\
Very useful course, which offered a valuable insight into the BO design suite. The trainer is very knowledgeable and the facility is first-class. Very impressed and will definitely come back for a follow-up advanced level course\
Over 2 days we covered a lot at a very easy pace. I thoroughly enjoyed the insights Simon gave and the interaction encouraged in the classroom; this added a lot.\
\
\
It is hard to give a fair comment since I was the only person in the class and also due to the fact that is was a quick decision to set up the course for me.  Nevertheless I have learned stuff and seen new thing that will be useful for me in the future. Change of location from Pemberton Row 1 into your office have both pros and cons. On the pro side, if I remember right, it is fresher rooms with better air condition at the new location. On the con side there is a possibility that someone else working in the office want to speak with the trainer during breaks.\
FULL KNOWLEDGE FROM TRAINER\
\
The course was very good and met our needs.\
BRILLIANT TRAINING\
\
There were a few teething problems with the IT equipment at the start of the course, but Karen resolved these issues quickly.  Apart from that, the training was brilliant.  Karen was happy to adapt the course to our needs and at a pitch that suited our existing skills, which were more advanced that the standard course content assumed.\
The course was very good and more than met our needs.\
Very informative course\
The trainer, Karen, was very knowledgeable\
\
Great course. \
\
\
\
\
\
Coffee machine ... bad taste and only warm (not hot)\
\
The training material is 5 years old and need an update to the current BOBJ 4.1/4.2.  The PC's used for the training really need to be replaced.  They are VERY slow and it's very anoying wasting so much time during the training waiting for the PC's.  Alternatively move the installation out of the PC's and run them on real servers like SAP do. Then we can connect using Remote Desktop instead.\
Very slow pc\
Very good to have practical exercises and hands on application rather than a series of slides\
\
Good to provide additional exercises if people finish workshops earlier.  There were a range of abilities in the course.\
\
\
I have really enjoyed the training.   Karen's pace was good enough for starters like myself.  I did not get bored!\
\
The course breakdown and mini workshops were excellent.\
A very nice presentation of Lumira.  Overall excellent deliver.\
A good introduction to the SAP tools\
Excellent delivery by Karen\
Karen was very clear in her explanations and took time to recap each section to ensure that people understood the content\
\
\
\
\
\
V.GOOD FOR THE INFORMATION GIVEN AND GOT MY QUESTIONS ANSWERED.\
\
\
\
\
Good overview.\
The laptops are a bit of hit and miss, as the software kept crashing.\
good interactive course\
The course was great and Karen was super helpful. I'd really like to do the advanced course\
\
David is very knowledgeable and I have thoroughly enjoyed my time attending the course today. \
good speed and plenty of opportunity for questions\
I did not book the course so I can't comment on the ease of this but the facilities were great.  Very useful course which has taught me a lot of additional things I never knew about.  I will definitely look into the advanced course as I feel this could be relevant as well.\
\
Great interaction, Trainer very knowledgeable, brilliant refreshments. \
\
Good course overall\
\
GEAT COURSE & GREAT TRAINER\
\
NICKY WAS VERY FRIENDLY + HELPFUL\
\
\
\
I SHOULD HAVE GONE STRAIGHT TO THE NEXT LEVEL UP\
\
VERY GOOD AND TRAINER VERY KNOWLEDGEABLE\
\
\
THIS WAS A GREAT COURSE COVERING ALL I NEEDED TO KNOW.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
PERHAPS OUR LEANER GROUP WOULD RELISH MORE ADVANCED LEAVERS\
TOO MUCH FORMS ON QUICKLY ISSUES OLD VERSION FOUND PACE A LITTLE FIRST TIME ON BO TRAINING A LITTLE BASIC\
IT IS VERY BASIC, IF THE GROUP HAVE KNOWLEDGE OF EXCEL SOME POINTS COULD BE COMPLETED FASTER\
ARGUABLY A LITTLE LOW LEVEL FOR THJE GROUP. NO CRITICAL OF THE TRAINING THROUGH\
I LIKED NICKY TRAINING STYLE BUT I FEEL THE CONTENET REALLY NEEDS CHANGING. FIRSTLY I FEEL IT COULD HAVE BEEN DONE IN 1 DAY OR AFTERNOON EVEN. IT IS VERY SLOW PACED IN PLACES- THE INDUCTION LASTED UNTIL 11AM ON THE FIRST DAY AND WE HADNT OPENED TGHE QUESTION. I THIK THIS CONTENT COULD HAVE BEEN CLEARED IN 20 MINS. AS WELL AS THIS, I THINK REFULA I7 USER CAN BE ASSURED TO HAVE A CERTAIN L;EVEL OF EXISTING KNOWLEDGE. WE DIDNT NEED TO DISCUSS PRINT I SAVE MULTIPLE OPTIONS TO EDIT CELLS ETC. EVEN THINGS LIKE FORMATING COULD BE POINTED OUT WITHOUT HANDING TO GO THROUGH THEM. THE BOOK REOPEN HANDED OUT IS VERY GOOD- VERY THROUGH.\
\
PACE OF THE COURSE WAS TOO SLOW. I FEEL THE CONTENT OF THE TWO DAYS CALLED HAVE (PRO)\
THE PACE OF THE COURSE WAS A BIT SLOW FOR ME \
Excellent course, well explained\
Very useful for my work\
Jenny, our trainer was amazing, knowledgeable, helpful, approachable and ran the course amazingly. After 4 months of using SAP BPC without any training and therefore seeing but not knowing or understanding how the system works or is built, I now am confident to open, review, build, support and even explain to others how to use, maintain, administer BPC and create, review, edit reports. The 4 days have covered a great array of topics and skills need to be proficient in the basics of SAP and be confident to build, test and implement in SAP.  The only part of the 4 days which I would like to raise for improvements it the facilities; - holding a training course for 3 people with 1 trainer in a small room - where 4 laptops with 1 projecting onto a larger screen with no table space and only 3 power points  - then being moved into the board room after being again being allocatged the small meeting room   Overall the course was great but the space constraints due to room allocation meant that the course was not the best environment to be given complex training in. \
Good solid course, great trainer, open to questions and allowed us to explore areas and aspects that are closer to our business and system setup. Content and material were spot on. The location, lunch, teabreaks were excellent. Good pace of learning throughout the 4 days. I definately feel far more confident and knowledgeable of our BPC System, in it's administration and reporting functionality. Would recommend.   The only thing that didn't work so well during our training course was the venue. We had no access to the proper training room on the first day, and were shoved into a tiny room for the entire day which got very hot and stuffy. 4 laptops, 4 people with only 3 plug points doesn't work well. Finally got access to the training room on Day 2, but the VM was running extremely slow, saving and input errors preventing us from doing the full process. Day 3, again, no access to the training room and shoved into the tiny airless room again for a few hours, only to be turfed out and moved to the Board room for the rest of the day - but were turfed out again at 2:30pm as someone had to use the video conferencing facilities. Day 4 fared better, still no access to the Training room, but at least we got to stay in the Board room all day with no interuptions. \
\
\
KAREN MADE TIME TO COVER ADDITIONAL MATERIAL\
Very knowledgeable trainer (Karen), good facilities and great course.  Very happy!\
Karen knew everything and was very helpful\
\
Good course working with our own internal data\
\
Well detailed, suitably paced with lots of practice and very relevant to my role\
Good course materials\
The course was great and Karen (the trainer) was great.  Now I just need time to play with the system\
EXCELLENT COURSE, REALLY LIKED SIMON PRESENTATION AND EXPLANATION. ONLY NEGATIVE IS THE ROOM ON THE END AND 3RD DAY SMALL COLD. NOT COMFORTABLE AND PLENTY OF SAFETY CONCERNS.\
\
ROOM WAS NOT GREAT, EITHER TOO WARM OR LUNCH WAS POOR. BUILDING STOCKNOT REPORT\
\
\
\
just a great practical course with a great knowledge presenter\
I was hoping the course would be a bit more advance more formula based\
SIMPLIFIED UNIVERSE DIDNT NECESSARILY SHOW COMPLICATONS CAUSED BY LARGE AMOUNTS OF DATA\
MAYBE SOME MAKE FORMULA WORK AND HANDS ON WITH OUR OWN DATA?\
\
\
\
It would have been good if the trainer knew which version we had.\
\
\
\
\
The course very well designed and achieved all my objectives.\
\
\
\
\
really useful content, especially at the stage I am at with the development of/roll out of BOXI 4\
\
excellent bespoke on-site training\
Found it really useful and the trainer was able to work well with the varying skill levels of the group.  Some good examples and activities although it is a shame that the actual course books had not been delivered in time.\
\
Trainer was sometimes too fast. Some students were struggled to follow during demos.\
\
\
\
I had expected to spend more time in Lumira rather than Web Intelligence\
\
The quality of the training manual is rather poor.  It seems to reference older versions of the software and is riddled with typos.\
Another good course from Itelligence. The instructor was very knowledgeable. Plenty of chances to ask questions and relate the course to your own work situations.\
Karen is great at bringing definition simplicity to complex chapters\
Excellent explanations and really useful content\
\
Met all my expectations\
\
I thought the trainer Nicky Triggs was very good at explaining and demonstrating what she was trying to get across with respect to each section of the course\
I was particularly impressed with the trainer Nicky, who did a great job\
\
\
\
\
\
Good pace, covered basics. \
very good in all areas.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The course content is quite repetitive with the server parameters and so it could probably be condensed into 2 days. Nicky did a very good job presenting this course.\
Trainer was knowledgeable and delivered the course well, I will be putting other colleagues on this course\
The Course material has some inconsistencies i.e description and diagram mismatch. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Well delivered course, covering all aspects of security I require for my role\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very Good\
Good content and material though a bit rushed for a 2 day course particularly towards the end\
Very good content and delivery\
Found the course very useful and will help in future for the project\
\
\
\
Good course, very knowledgeable trainer.  \
\
\
Content was good- Material was difficult to follow in the lessons. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
No issues at all.  As always an excellent course from iTelligence, real value for money, that I would recommend to others.  Thanks.\
\
\
\
\
Course well structured, Trainer was very knowledgeable. has chained my perception of business object as had previously assumed that it was more of a Data gathering system.\
\
Really good course, I found out that Business Objects can do a lot more than I was previously aware of. Now I've got to try to persuade my company to let me make proper use of the system...\
\
Excellent pacing and a really informative course. The atmosphere was casual but focussed and the practical exercises kept involvement high\
Simon was very engaging and the course was very well thought out and easy to understand\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
A very useful introduction to IDT. As an experienced Universe designer already , some of the DWH concepts covered weren't new to me but this isn't the fault of Itelligence , who were following the SAP course outline.  Karen was a good trainer - knowledgeable and patient.  \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Good trainer and professional teaching style. Excellent course indeed.\
\
\
\
\
\
Overall a very good course\
\
\
\
Practical and straight to the point. The course is well aimed and delivered. The delegates could be assisted with bullet summaries at the end of the workshops in the written materials - or points on best practise etc. The Trainer was very approachable, and knowledgeable. I came away with a better insight into the areas I needed to focus on, as well as an overall view. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Good course. Structured well and informative\
\
very good, lots of content\
Great course, will help understand the new system. \
Great tool \
I thought the course was very good, well presented and applicable to my area of work. Karen was good, went through the course a good pace. I think I can go away and use the IT systems proficiently now. \
learnt new tricks that will be handy for work\
\
Love the course and how helpful the trainers are.\
\
Good course, trainer very good.  Course materials need some updating to prevent confusion.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Having always been nervous of report writing this has given me the confidence to actually have play with the system and see what I can create with the help of my notes and the manual provided.\
\
Great course, very well delivered\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent.  Informative, useful and at just the right pace.\
the course was very useful with good supporting training material.  The trainer was very knowledgeable.\
Very comprehensive.  The speed and pace of the course was just right.  Karen provided very clear and concise explanations of all topics covered\
Karen was a very experienced, calm teacher\
\
Great Course,  trainer very experienced and knowledgeable.\
Very good intro\
\
\
\
\
\
the room on the second day was not suitable for 3 people no space to take notes etc..\
Not happy, being moved from a training room into a small stuffy room with a small table, I had to crook my neck to view the teacher screen, and have asked for a refund as I feel I have been treated with contempt.\
\
A well structured course delivered at a good pace.\
\
\
\
I found the course very informative and useful. Karen's teaching style was very effective and I enjoyed how interactive the course was. The course notes are also very detailed.\
\
\
The instructor is an expert and makes very easy to navigate through this tool.  The only negative point was actually the room temperature which peaked to 27.4 degrees, making very uncomfortable to be at the room and concentrate on the training. Must be sorted ASAP.\
Found this course very useful and Simon clearly explained principles and how to get the most out Business Objects. Very informative and would recommend to other users of Business Objects.  Facilities were good but our room was boiling - 27.6 degrees!!!\
Fantastic course. I think the laptops need upgrade for the power hungry application on the course\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very well explained, nice and clear. \
Excellent presentation, easy to follow, informative and interactive. \
\
\
very easy to follow \
\
I found the course useful but dint had much opportunity to try and test the things practically with the data we use in our organisation. Not much questions were answered. \
I had to repeatedly email for joining details which were never sent, I'd had another member of staff on a course the week before so guessed that the details and start times were the same!\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Enjoyed the food!\
Very enjoyable course, gave me time to understand how to apply certain aspects back in the office on our system\
After Day 1 I felt unsure of how everything fitted together as the software is not exactly intuitive out of the box - however by the end of Day 2 I felt everything had come togather very well and feel pretty confident about how to use and exploit the tool. Sean is a very hands on and approachable person who made it all work\
Slow start then fast towards the end. Pace could be evened out\
Very organised course, very knowledgeable trainer, good facilities.\
Good trainer\
Good course, lots of Q&A on practical application as well as working through the content.  Great Lunch :-)\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Cold room, Great Course. \
\
\
The one to one session has really given me great understanding of IDT II. Karen has been so patient and gone through each topic with great understanding to have clear understanding. I have learned few tricks and useful information I will be able to take to the team.\
A very good course that I really enjoyed and felt that I learned at lot from. \
\
\
\
\
Course was not technical in enough places \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very Impressed with Course. Simon was great trainer, good pace, learn't a lot. I would recommend this course\
\
Training manuals are excellent, Trainer went too fast.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Would have scored higher recommendation but the form wouldn't render 10/10 properly. Documentation although good is slightly out of date and contains quote marks and things around SQL code which aren't reflected in the code you see on the screen. Great course and trainer - superbly knowledgeable\
Best Training Course on B.O. I've been on \
Very good, Covered a lot of interesting things \
\
\
Knowledgeable Trainer very Engaging \
\
\
\
Unfortunately the Laptops seem to be under powered. One Exercise for different Data Sources would only run on one machine. This doesn't show BO in a great light.    \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very Useful and Informative course \
Found the Course Interesting and useful good pace Simon V.Good !\
Excellent course, dealt with the areas I needed to cover.  With admin I have a two hour journey, so getting the start time 30 mins too early means I have to get up at 6 instead of 6.30\
I can recomment this training, but I have to repeat what we did in this 2 days.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Laptop screen too small for  BI Tools\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very good at open discussion which was very helpful \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Happy ! Nice Chap. Learned at good pace for group, good content/resources. Images sometimes didn't match book. \
Some Course Material was incorrect\
\
Trainer was Excellent\
Very good  course - Great Pace + Easy to understand\
Well Structured and delivered course with Karen unphased by events.\
\
\
Some wanted time towards the end of the course waiting for a bursting example\
Was very helpful. Would have been helpful if the trainer looked into out system before starting the course \
\
Great course specific to our needs\
\
\
Course contents are good. Sean has a professional manner to explain all the complex concepts for me to understand everything clearly. This certinaly has been very useful course to have. \
N/A :-)\
\
\
The course covered exactly the areas I was interested in and needed clarifications about. It answered questions I had had for a long time.\
\
Trainer was very good but not sure content was alright level for audience maybe a little basic \
Quite Basic but I think that is the nature of the product\
Friendly Knowledgeable Trainer maybe some more BW Content ? \
\
\
Well Presented useful content updated to our needs\
Content was perfect for my level of knowledge. Trainer was happy to adopt more when we were happy to move on.\
\
Had problems with my mouse and clicking\
\
Very insightful course, excellent knowledge of Business Objects, Simon was very helpful in suggesting uses for functionality and tailoring the training to suit our requirements. Would definitely recommend this course.\
Very well explained.\
Very good + Informative + Pretty hands on\
\
Really Useful, Good Practical examples, Knowledgeable trainer.\
Excellent Food\
Laptops too slow to support course Content\
\
\
Excellent Course Thank you \
Good pace and easy to follow\
\
\
\
The course is really useful and Karen is very helpful and knowledgeable to cover real time scenerios.She encouraged us to ask questions more related to our business areas.I found that was very useful.\
\
\
Analysis was not covered into the extent I expected but everything else was super !\
\
Course materials had several typos and mistakes in - environments were a little slow due to being underpowereed. However, everything else was great - trainer good, facilities excellent.\
\
\
Very good, the advanced course will be on my to do list\
Great course, great trainer! Very good for people that are about to start using Business Objects - I wish I had attended this course ages ago. Thank you \
Fantastic course - I had never used business objects before and Nicky made this very easy to follow.  Brilliant trainer.\
Very good course and well delivered.\
Easy to follow instructions. Good learning materials to take away.\
Acted mostly as a refresher but useful new content as well \
Succint overview of BODS in 2 day period.\
\
\
Excellent course.  answered many of the niggling problems I have been trying to find a solution for\
really good in depth course i found it really informative and very useful  all explained very well and I feel that this is going to be really helpful to me going forwards in my work thank you\
Very comprehensive course covering all the aspects I will need in my role.  Trainer was very knowledgeable about the subject and was able to answer queries, especially where these would relate to my specific role.  Some parts of the course felt a little dis-jointed in their delivery and the slides could have been a bit more helpful.\
Excellent, Opened many doors for me.\
\
\
It was really a very informative and thorough sessions on datawarehouse design. Sean was really good at explaining the key feature as well as highlighting the key areas to look out during the design. Overall it was really good course.\
\
very good... would recomend\
Excellent course delivered at an excellent pace and not too heavy on detail providing me with all the relevant data I need to complete my day job. The local facilities were excellent and the small classroom size allowed for an intimate atmosphere with regular one on one tuition between myself and the trainer. Thoroughly recommend this to others. \
\
Excellent.\
\
\
Relly good course, will come again for further trainning. I recommend to anyone interested in IT Training. \
I thought the course was brilliant and hope to pop back for more session. Thanks\
\
Enjoyed the training, learnt some good tips, would need the advanced course\
Well trained instructor and nice to be in here! Expect to be in here for the advanced course too.\
Very informative trainer with a sound knowledge of the training material and engaging. I felt that the course content could have been much shorter with more focus put on showing students how to create the visuals. Perhaps consider putting the two courses together? It was thought provoking though and enjoyable. Thank you.\
\
\
Karen's an excellent trainer. Very good knowledge of the course and the products.\
Overall, I was very happy with the course. The content was relevant and the deliver was fantastic.   The trainer came across as confident and was able to answer questions when asked by the group. Overall, very pleased indeed.\
\
\
\
Excellent course and trainer. I will be using the skills learnt upon my return to the office. I will recommend this course  to my colleagues\
\
Very good.\
Very good.\
\
\
\
Good Pace\
\
\
\
Good Pace to work to\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Great Course !\
\
\
\
Very good Manual + Trainer\
Was Very through and well explained delivered at a good pace\
\
\
\
Above Expectations\
Karen was great and course was very good\
Yet again very informative and enjoyable session. Already using the benefit of 2 day IDT course David hosted a month ago. Only gripe is state/performance of laptops, not great\
\
Buy some new laptops...!!!!\
\
\
\
\
Well explained\
\
Well run course with appropriate content.\
Excellent intro to WEBI\
\
\
\
Very Well Explained with examples and handson.\
the course was very useful and well delivered by Karen. \
Very helpful and insightful. Joy to learn from.\
Again a Very good course run by this company, very knowledge trainer very good course\
The course is very useful indeed for our migration project. Well recommended for the other staff from our company. \
\
\
Trainer was excellent and the course material was very detailed \
\
\
The course covered all the important tools needed to competently use Business Objects and was very good at pointing towards the most efficient uses of tools and full functionality of all sections. For me personally as I had already had some experience of Business Objects I found that a few parts I already knew and would have liked to have gone into more detail on. This is perhaps something that the Advanced Course would cover.\
\
Brilliant overall! Fantastic trainer\
\
Course covered everything I was looking for. It should help me in the future\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Trainer incorporating maps into training to accommodate requests\
\
\
The Course was very interactive\
\
\
Laptop had missing software/datasets & old version which impacted on the ability to follow at times\
Very useful overview but would probably need more in-depth demonstrations to really get the best out of Lumira. \
\
\
Idiots guide for me ! Otherwise a good course\
Very Good\
\
\
\
\
Excellent !\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Well paced and informative. Furthermore kept topics I already know interesting and engaging. Thanks :)\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Course Book Hard to follow, Fine when Trainer there but will struggle back in office\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Manual is heavy on text could do with a condemned version with clearer examples.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very Useful !\
\
\
All Good !\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Good Trainer \
\
- Really Good !\
Course was very informative and Nicky made it very easy to understand. Pace of the course was perfect and the examples to work through were easy to follow. Any questions i had were answered in detail and Nicky was good at relating the course back to the type of data that i will be using.\
\
the course was as expected\
\
\
\
\
Will definitely recommend.\
\
\
\
\
\
Trainer was excellent\
Good Course \
Airco could be less noisy, Location very good, \
\
Very enjoyable and engaging.\
\
Very good and explains the functionality and script writing\
At times some people were waiting a while for slower people to catch up, it would have been helpful to have a couple of side activites.\
\
Excellent course for the business, and very well taught. The interviewer spent decent amount of time explaining topics not on the course. However, just too basic for someone from IT, but pitched very well at the end users of data visualisation.\
\
\
Good course very useful, David very knowledgeable on Design Studio. Well Structured and answered any questions that came up \
\
\
Well done course.\
\
\
The course material is very good, but I am finding that it doesn't follow a step by step guide in using some area's of Webi/BI and so I am spending time trying to find the correct process.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
User Friendly Software\
As Expected never used it before so all new bus explained & demonstrated well if a little slow places\
\
Spoke very clearly\
Good Pace + Structure\
\
Good pace and style. Good to have the opportunity to have the course adapted to company data.\
Although I have Used the System, I still picked up a few tricks and hints. Trainer adapted his teaching style.\
\
\
\
A section where we show issues of our Boxi reports and ideas of how to improve (Part of the course). Simon Jackson (Trainer) did stay behind on the 1st day to look at this \
\
\
Very informative. Great presentation and easy to follow. Ample opportunity for questions. Very good workshops\
Nicky is a good trainer and gave you time to get your head around thedifferent sections.\
\
Very helpful and useful - thanks!\
Informative, Useful, Well explained.\
\
I had very baseic knowledge of BODS before attending and the course helped me gain knowlege on different features that are available. Loved the fact that the class size was very small and there was personal attention given to all attending. \
I feel that I would retain more of what i learned if i used the techniques to solve tasks  during the training. Although there were tasks, the step by step nature removed any opportunity to attempt to gain the results independantly. \
Excellent overview course of changes in BI4\
Very much enjoyed the course and will recommend to clients\
Very good, comprehensive course, covered all the areas I was interested in.   Sean was an excellent trainer.\
\
Fantastic course. As a moderate Business Objects user, the pace was was perfect for me. Nicky was patient and very helpful. Will definitely recommend this course to my team.\
A lot covered over the 2 days, but at a relaxed and easy pace\
\
The fact it was a hot day and the air conditioning wasn't working made it a bit hard to concentrate, but the course was good. It could have been paced a bit faster but the fact it was quite leisurely made it easier to absorb the various topics.\
\
\
\
good course\
There were some distractions for the trainer troubleshooting laptops for another course on the first and second day. The laptops were also limited on RAM which affected the speed of some of the exercises and limited the servers or BO components we could run simultaneously.\
\
\
I found the course extremely useful. I enjoyed how challenging the course was, as I felt that I was able to keep up with the pace, and have understood and hopefully remembered much of the information that was taught.\
The instructor was very knowledgeable on the subject and passed on their knowledge, in a clear, consise and interesting way.\
\
Very well structured and good learning style. Recommended! Great Time and a lot to take away with me.\
\
Too much focus on graph types you simply could not use\
Was not given much info on the course prior to so did not know 100% what to expect\
\
\
\
This course met my needs\
\
Overall, very good and well presented.\
The pace in the morning, where the concepts seemed a bit simpler, could have been a little faster so that the harder things in the afternoon could be a bit slower, but perhaps that's down to my experience/familiarity (or lack of).  The trainer was friendly, helpful and clear, and obviously knew the product very well.  Having options for decaffeinated drinks would be good, but otherwise the refreshments were nice and it was a treat to go out for lunch.  Re administration, I had to chase a joining instructions but I don't know where the hiccup was. \
Facilities very good, lunch excellent. Would have liked some decaffinated tea and coffee. Very enjoyable course and well delivered.\
Excellent instruction from Nicky - always helpful and adaptable\
Excellent course, gave me everything I needed, trainer very patient.\
\
Overall good\
Good course, opportunity to test knowledge by use of exercises and ability to query functionality.\
Excellent to receive a Workbook/Manual\
Good For Beginners\
\
Very useful for my role\
Really good delivery style, easy to follow with lots of opportunity to practise. THANKS\
Good for those who have never used the system before, also who need extra help\
Excellent course really made sense\
The trainer Karen was very competent and was able to answer all our questions. The facilities were good.\
Please note the trainer was Karen Hinton, really impressed with Karen and how the course was structured, the only slight downside was the room was too warm especially after lunch.\
Course was run at a sensible pace with plenty of interaction and workshops (trial questions). 1st day very good and relevant to our work needs. Trainer was very good and helpful. \
Karen is a fantastic trainer! :)  Thank you\
Course was very useful and planned out well.\
Excellent course - well presented by Karen\
excellent!\
\
\
Karen Hinton was a great tutor\
\
\
Helpful course - Good Tutor\
\
\
\
A very good, well paced course.  Covered areas that we have been struggling with that were outside of the course content. Thank you. Lunch was excellent too!\
Very useful and helpful course. Aimed at just the right level and provided lots of useful tips. Well explained with plenty of detail.\
\
Very helpful - Highly recommended.  Many Thanks\
I would have expected to have had to attend the Web Intelligence Training course before attending this course.  The content was good and I learned a lot, but if I had carried out Web Intelligence training I would definitely got more out of the course.  Trainer was excellent.  Laptops quite dirty.\
Good stuff - Keith has a great grip of the software and showed us a few great tricks!\
\
\
great course with real world examples that covered everything needed\
\
\
\
Good course, well presented and good structure.  Easy to see practical implication of content.  Seam was great; personable, knolwedgeable, kept things interesting\
\
\
\
\
Expected a faster track fast track, skipping the really basic concepts.\
\
\
Good course for refreshing the memory; covered areas that I had not used before.  Would have been useful to include some work on the services but that is in a separate course.  Good lunches.\
Excellent course.  Would highly recommend it to colleagues at work.\
Excellent well explained course. tutor took time oout to explain point not covered by the curriculm when asked and still managed to complete published course content.\
\
Would recommend it, it was easy to follow. \
\
Course met expectations\
Great course many thanks\
Very informative and information provide was really useful, answered specific questions about relevant queries I had\
\
\
\
\
Having used DESKI for a few years, I gained a great deal of extra techniques\
\
Good Acclimatisation course - Maybe Lacks more complex aspects\
\
\
Good Course for understanding how to use the system\
\
Very Basic for these with analytical/DB Background\
Simply Excellent. \
Overall a very good course running through the basics of report design, all points were well covered and Karen the trainer was very knowledgeable and helpful.  Karen's training style was very good, she is a very friendly and likeable person and this translates into a good learning environment. \
\
Well run course with small number of students.  Good location and learning environment.  A few IT issues though.  Trainer was great and dealt with specific queries.\
\
I am very glad to have trining with itelligence and Nicky\
It was Nicky.\
The course was very helpful.  It was good to be able to spend the time to understand the publication of a universe from start to finish as a worked practical example.  That said there were times when I thought that the course material could have been covered a little faster.\
\
Trainer Really good but too much information in one day\
\
\
\
Great Course and Materials, and Great Instructor\
\
\
\
\
MORE HEALTHY OPTIONS FOR LUNCH AND SNACKS\
Very good course, great delivery with clear explanations and also linking to real secenarios which made understanding how to use the tool easier.\
Really enjoyed the course - very useful. Was well structured and at a good pace. Very knowledgable trainer.\
\
\
\
Thank you !\
\
\
Very minor comment that it could have been a but quicker paced\
Very Good information course\
\
Course was slow to start but once it got going it was very comprehensive.  Trainer was knowledgable and charismatic.  A few technical glitches created hold-ups.  You need a new coffee machine!\
Overall very good. Trainer/course/facilities very good\
\
\
Overall a very good course and better than expected. Some limitations in performance of the software on the hadware used but the skil and experience of the trainer prevented this being an issue.  General environment,classroom, welcome etc were fantatsic.  Improved laptops would have seen 5's across the board\
\
\
\
\
\
Not sure what I'll use it for as I don't know what data is in the system/universe \
\
\
Thank you !\
We have a system that would have been better to look directly at that \
\
\
\
Nicky was excellent. Very clear and Precise. Makes a lot more sense now Thanks \
Very helpful and detailed for an overview\
\
\
\
\
\
Clarity of presentation (Excellent)\
It was Brilliant but too basic for my needs. Great for a complete newbie. \
Great intro - Loading forward to the next step\
Had Some Experience with early bits but learned some new stuff later\
Very instructive, thanks!\
\
\
\
Possibly check user experience first although course was good, some found it easy and some hard. Could have been much quicker\
Orientation section at the start was too long, very basic. Filtering/Functions were excellent\
Easy to follow, Useful content\
Very Clearly Conveyed\
\
very good\
\
Good course with a good level of information that was not too data heavy\
Very nice venue.\
\
\
\
\
David was very knowledgable and gave me an excellent grounding in the subject matter\
\
Excellent trainer, easy to follow and very helpful\
\
Excellent Trainer really enjoyed the course \
\
\
Again excellent trainer, really good course. Really enjoyed \
Great quality of training delivered\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Gone through in lots of detail\
\
\
Easy to follow starting from zero knowledge of project\
\
\
Really good on hand training \
\
\
Trainer very knowledgeable, Approach great manner, made training system very easy to understand \
\
Very useful as had no prior knowledge of business objects \
\
\
\
\
Laptops were very poor and Several hours of practical tim lost \
\
Tempermental laptops / Excellent Trainer\
\
\
Materials and system were not always working properly\
Lots of jargin but keith slowed down and explained clear\
A little to fast to start with !\
Would be good if I was able to save / Keep out BO stuff from the laptop\
The training was great as usual. Lots of useful information.\
Excellent Facilities\
Directions on location on website  wrong\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Marked down slightly due to lack of internet access but overall very useful\
No WIFI\
\
\
\
Excellent Support, Teaching and Materials \
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent support from David. Very clear explanations on how this system supports Data Analysis\
\
\
\
I am not in a position to recommend the course \
\
Felt at ease especially as I am not familiar with subject \
Pitched at the right level to suit all abilities\
\
good explanations, In depth discussion really helped my understanding \
Very good thought. Very good at explaining\
More practice at regular interest to help reinforce theory; need some more modifications, good tuition\
Excellent trainer, Training was very well delivered. Unfortunately, due to the way the database is set-up, there's a lot we need to do before we are able to use WEBL 4.0 in this way. The examples used to work are simple, and the data set-up logically, but in practise it wont be easy.\
\
\
\
\
\
Context was very well arranged & it was easy to move from one topic to the next\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Good pace validated learning.\
\
\
\
Time of course too long due to levels of experience of students.\
\
\
\
\
\
Course is well structured.\
\
Very engaging course and interesting.  Great Trainer.\
\
\
\
Very useful - basic but helped a good base knowledge.  Thanks.\
Well informed & well delivered course activities.\
\
\
Good clear demos delivered at a good pace.\
\
Interesting and engaging course.\
\
Trainer very engaging - slightly hampered by technology not always functioning as required.\
\
Still no wifi during the course - could not show examples from my system\
\
No wifi access during course\
Covered all questions that we had in the 2 days which resulted in clear understandable outcomes. Covered topics and techniques that will be useful straight away when I get back to the office. \
I was quite dissapointed when I did the Dashboards training with a different trainer as many questions were left unanswered. I was also told I would be emailed further details but wasn't.  In contrast to that, this course was fantastic. I found it very useful and Nicky was superb. She answered any questions I had and was extremely knowledgeable. I rated her and the course very highly.\
Well paced\
A shame that QA did not mention the Advanced course when booking.\
I would wish for a more detailed content of the booklet.  Some issues were not covered in the booklet.\
\
\
\
\
\
Good - easy to understand.\
It would be useful to have solutions included in the course materials and more screenshots for future use\
\
\
\
Good speaker that interact with the delegates very well. \
Fun course to take with a good instructor. Very interactive and good with pointers that would otherwise needed to have been learned through trial and error.\
\
\
\
I wasn't sure which course to go on and found the course challenging at times, which wasn't helped by my pc crashing, so I got about 80% of the course completed, so I learned a great deal. The course could be really useful in producing reports which are already formatted which could avoid work in Excel. \
Course was very slow, and took a while to get up and running. There was nothing new to me in this course with the exception of combined queries and alerter properties. Hopefully the advanced course will meeting my training needs.\
Would be better to start off using only examples that are relevant to WGC work - the stuff was relatively boring and slow when we did the eFashion example, but became far more interesting when we got to the WGC examples. Very nice, approachable and friendly tutor. \
\
\
Excellent course, patiently delivered by Sean. Very impressed with the Itelligence training centre setup, quality training, well organised and a good atmosphere.\
\
A little fast paced for me as I was lacking SQL experience, but overall a good course with a lot of useful information and a detailed set of course notes.\
A fun and informative course that was well paced and well prepared. And the lunches provided were particularly splendid!\
\
\
All good, struck a good balance.\
A lot of technical jargon I didn't quite understand.\
\
Good course but was hampered by virtual machines being slow and prone to crashing.\
\
Good level of info\
\
\
\
\
For my level of knowledge I felt I held the class back.\
\
The pace was great with very helpful explanations.\
basements are very dark handout missed steps\
\
Only comment is first 2 days could probably be covered in the 1.\
\
\
Really great course, great Trainer.\
Delivery of the course was excellent.\
\
\
\
\
Very well run course, covered a lot in a short amount of time.\
\
\
\
\
Excellent Training, Thank You.\
Good knowledge + content.  Excellent. V good Trainer.\
Exceptional Trainer/Knowledge!\
\
I believe the course should be 5 days with 1 more day for exposure to Data Services functionality.\
Great course for experienced users. And great for moving to the latest version of Business Objects.\
Great pace of course and trainer knowledge\
\
Very useful course; will need more practise based on business data\
The course content was comprehensive and Jenny covered everything well and tailored things to our needs. The only criticism I have is that the hard copy manual is rather more basic than I expected.\
Very good course, a lot of knowledge to take in over two days. Jenny was very good at explaining some of the more complex issues in a simpler way to understand which helped someone like me who is new to BPC/EPM.\
Fairly useful but having used old versions regularly it could have been more complex. Not much you can do about that though.\
Easy to find, great location & great pace of course\
Eh\
Day one was quite slow and I feel a lot more content could have been covered. Day two was paced much more appropriately. \
TRAINING ROOM GOT VERY HOT AND STUFFY\
\
Course was clearly new and experimental. I don't feel we covered as much material as you might expect to over the duration of a day. However, the trainer was very engaging, and with different material I would expect him to be very competent. I'd recommend the trainer, but not the course.\
Good course, well delivered, one of the best training centres I've used\
\
I learnt some useful thnigs on the course. Ideally we should have had 2 days to cover all we wanted to do but with our wishlists of tasks  but I'm happy with what we covered in the time\
My machine sometimes a bit slow\
\
\
\
\
\
I would have liked to have worked on some otf the more taxing stuff (merged Dimensions etc) earlier in the day\
\
Didn't specify a time to arrive or a dress code\
\
Didn't specify a time to arrive or a dress code\
Really good course. I learnt some interesting things about the features of IDT that I wasn't aware of previously and Sean was a great trainer.\
\
I liked the fact that Nicky ran late rather than rushing through to finish on time.\
Course a little unbalanced am/pm - heavy in pm\
\
\
\
\
\
Great course, thank you :)\
Overall very satisfied with the course. Good location, nice venue & very well explained by the trainer. David took a personal approach and satisfied my own needs on top of the training course! Very impressed with the lunches. This really helps to get to know the company & the people better.\
\
A lot of content in the class, and due to mixed abilities pace was a bit tricky.  I wouldn't necessarily recommend this course to be done directly after the initial reporting course, as on-the-job experience is required in order to cement the concepts learnt on the initial course to ensure that the pace is correct.\
\
\
Thank you!\
excellent\
excellent\
Helpful and friendly trainer who was patient to answer questions and resolve issues, useful course even for learners with no prior SQL and universe design/database knowledge but some reference to further/pre-reading may also be helpful\
Really good course. Very helpful for getting to grips with the changes in BO4. Relaxed and friendly environment.\
Excellent course, well presented and very informative.  Good course notes\
Really useful, the right speed of course for my level of skills.\
\
New chairs needed!\
Great course - Nicky explained everything well, even when I forgot to press 'modify'!\
\
\
\
Great Course. I personally feel that i needed to spend more time with the tool before covering this information off in more details.   Trainer was excellent\
All fine\
\
\
The room was too warm. Everything else was fine\
Little slow but understand the course need to run at the speed of the entire group\
\
\
\
\
\
The course is a good introduction to Business Objects. I think organising lunch and providing drinks and snacks for trainees is really nice as this makes it the experience easier.\
Enjoyable course which was easy to follow\
\
\
\
\
\
Really enjoyed the course and felt the content answered all the questions I arrived with and more. Did find the chairs in the training room uncomfortable. Lunches were excellent. The trainers ability to help us model scenarios with our examle data proved very helpful.\
Excellent course and trainer\
Very informative\
Thank you Becky,  you made it lot easier!\
\
Excellent course and trainer was excellent :)\
Good Course very interesting gave a good insight to the IDT tool\
Very friendly and helpful trainer, course was designed at a good pace and useful exercises to consolidate knowledge and build confidence\
\
Laptop screen too small for people with impaired eyesight\
Very good pace, everything explained very clearly with good exmples/exercises to practise.\
Small laptop and screen difficult to read\
\
\
Very good training and trainer seemed to know content very well. Lunch was also incredibly nice.\
Very impressed, and glad I decided to attend the advanced course. Showed us many features that would remain unknown had we not attended this course.\
Excellent as always, would heartily recommend.\
Good scope & easy to follow. Great tutor. Well organised. Excellent lunch!\
\
Very good course and a helpful and knowledgeable trainer. Great lunch arrangements and time keeping.\
\
Clear relavent learning objectives. Good handbook, went at a good pace as well.\
Very good training provided. Course tutor was very clear with the instructions and was good with his explanations.\
\
\
Very good course, delivered very well. The course material might need some revision and updating.\
\
\
Really enjoyed this course.  \\the trainer was very detailed and ensured understood all elements and allowed time to write and go through exercises with support.\
\
Very good course, very well presented, and very useful.\
The course is quite useful for starters but there are quite a few mistakes in the course material and exercises.\
I was pleased with the course, trainer ans facilities\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent refresher on advanced tools & formula content.\
\
due to trainer illness which could not be forseen the second day was a little rushed, two days or i and half day condensed into one.  I would have liked to have completed fully all exercises.  But we were accommodated for and fully supported.\
\
\
Very hot with no air con plus a bit dark in the basement\
Very knowlegable trainer. Helpful and able to answer all questions that were asked. Highly recommended for anyone that will be building reports with Business Objects\
\
A really useful training course completed at a good pace but there are a few variable items which could limit my overall usage of the tool.\
\
Super course. Really well done\
\
\
Course was excellent\
Very good.\
Thank you for the great course, Nicky. \
\
Very informative.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent trainer, very clear.\
\
\
\
\
Nicky delivered the training in a clear & concise manner & met needs of all levels of ability/capability at start in attendance, some of whom had not used this tool before.\
\
Trainer had very good knowledge on subject.  Good pace, relaxed environment aided learning.\
Nicky is very knowledgeable and has an excellent method of instruction.\
Course content, trainer, and building facilities / refreshments were excellent - I got a lot out of the course.  However the IT facilities left a lot to be desired - laptop was continually hanging and demanding more memory, and failed to keep up with the speed of the trainer, hence I was getting left behind whilst I waited for the laptop to do things.  All PCs (including that of the trainer) failed to connect to live environments and we were 'talked through' this aspect as the IT had failed.  I would have expected better IT facilities.  Otherwise no complaints.\
Topics and steps covered thoroughly each time. Enthusiastic delivery. Some demonstrations not working due to tech problems - so missed out on seeing how some processes worked. \
Course was good as an introdcution to dashboaring, did not have very much challenging content. Would have been good to of seen the different data connections working a bit more. Overall very enjoyable thank you.\
\
brilliant course, looking to book onto the advanced course.\
\
\
\
We were not told who the training provider was until we had paid for the course. We almost didn't book because of this. You might be losing clients because of this!\
Course is great and extremely benefitical - trainer is fantastic - ful of knowledge, very friendly, gives alot of hints and tips about navigating around BI.\
\
Excellent.  Very helpful.\
very well presented, easy to follow and keep up.\
\
Good course and friendly staff.  Excellent lunches and biscuits.\
\
Very good although wont really know how much i have learnt til i use it\
A few problems with the equipment, the laptops weren't working so the course started late but overall it was very useful\
\
\
\
\
The course was well presented and although personally it wasn't quite at the level I had hoped, it did cover everything that was promised.  I am especially grateful that the course wasn't cancelled due to low attendance.\
No windows and badly ventilated room.\
\
\
Flexibility of course content.\
The room is too hot!!\
Room needs to be cooler.\
Very well presented!\
Slow start - good speed overall.\
\
Sitting arrangement was not good.\
\
First day a bit slow - could move first part of second day to end of first day to balance duration\
great thank you \
Excellent course.  I have learnt so much and look forward to taking what I've learnt back to the office!  Nicky has been an excellent tutor.  Very patient!\
Extremely useful course, will be an important part of my future role\
\
\
A good course that breaks down alot of technical information into sizeable chunks. Sean was very helpful considering I'd never used the tool previously and explained things until I understood without making me feel silly etc.\
THe course was detailed with good content, all quesrtons were dealt with as the trainer has great knowledge on the product\
A very good course that will help my own knowledge on BO and improve the use within my company. Shaun, was very helpful and catered to the fact i had never used the tool before.\
Sean is very helpful and goes through the examples thoroughly\
course turned out to be one on one, which helped me get everything I wanted out of the course\
Great course material and admin really good. Nice venue and lunch was great!\
Course book was not clear with some of the examples\
\
\
It might be useful if the courses sizes were smaller so there is no wasted time working through the examples, and the course could be speeded up. \
GR8\
\
\
A few issues with the content but Neil handled issues well and was very approachable and knowledgeable.  I haven't used WEBI before but picked up the subject well so this course did the job - I would have preferred a faster pace and more detail, but that depends on having other delegates who are similar.\
\
The course ended up being 1:1, so was perfect for my learning style, and we were able to focus time on what i needed.\
Well paced and explained.\
Good course - learnt a lot.\
\
It was a much more interesting event than expected.  Built my confidence & enthusiasm.\
Course was pitched at the right level for our users and will help significantly with report building.\
\
\
\
\
4.1 on Training Laptops Please\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Good to have a trainer enthusiastic about subject.\
\
I found this course extremely useful with the tutor extremely clear and helpful. Really enjoyed the course\
Great introduction for upgrade of Xi4 from Xi3 with new features.\
I was hoping for the course to be at a more advanced level\
There was not much explanation around the course content, just working at a fast pace through the booklet. I felt that the pace was a bit too fast.  The course could be extended over a few days to give a greater depth and cover more. This is the most advanced reporting course available, but I think that it would be possible to create an even more advanced course, which I would find useful\
\
\
\
\
Neil Denton was really friendly and very engaging. I didn't have trouble staying awake at all!\
The course was an excellent introduction to Business Objects and was delivered very well. A lot of informtion was covered which might benefit from more time allotted to making notes against examples in the book and having a file of documents completed avaiable to take away at the end.\
Really liked the Sean as a trainer, really enthusiastic, really helpful and really easy to ask questions.  Wish he could do all of my training!!\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very informative - easy to follow.  Good trainer.\
\
Very educational and fun!\
The trainer was really nice and helpful, but I feel one day was not enough for me to learn the basics.\
\
Excellent intractive course, a good pace too.\
very good course and trainer.\
\
David was good, but the course could be made to feel a little more structured to go up to the next level also the toilets were unclean\
\
\
\
Would have been good if Trainer had been given opportunity to know our environment better.\
\
\
Better laptops!\
1-on-1 tuition meant I could learn at my own pace, and skip past items that I had already got lots of experience in\
Very happy with the course\
Excellent course for me as a beginner in WEBi, providing me with a broad knowledge of the package.\
\
excellent and really useful course. would rcommend. many thanks\
Room was very warm; refreshments were excellent. Lunches were at local restaurants and were good.\
Would recommend that the course is based on the latest version - our course was one version back where there were slight functional differences. Apart from that the course was extremely useful and will be of great value to the participants.\
\
Definitely enjoyed the course as it layed down a nice base to the basics I already knew about IDT and then brought me to the next level. The instructor was also very easy to listen to and was very dynamic as needed. Well done.\
\
Excellent course.  Material good and examples good.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent high level coverage of the ETL tool at a level suitable for Project or System Managers\
\
\
Excellent course, well-paced and presented, which will prove invaluable in my new role.\
Excellent introduction & overview. Ideal for those who need awearness of Data Warehouse Design\
Excellent Course\
\
Great course and trainer!\
\
Excellent course and excellent trainer. Very much enjoyed the three days and will be back for more courses with Sean.\
I found the level of detail was not overly complicated and allowed time for me to absorb the processes before moving on to the next section. Neil's knowledge was complete and I felt he could answer all my questions with accuracy.  I particularly enjoyed being able to drill into subjects so that I could get the most out of what I was learning.\
A little basic for our level (one size fits all) but the facilitator went through anything off topic etc fully so this made up for it.\
Good speed and appropriate level of detail.\
\
Really great course - trainer included anecdotes and real examples to the course\
Excellent course, very knowledgable trainer, course well paced and kept interesting with relevant examples.  Lunches were a well appreciated bonus.\
Excellent location, facilities and content. This was pitched at the right level for me having basic SQL knowledge and was very useful.\
Contents and structure very good as I was a complete novice the trainer spent time alone with me to explain\
Very useful, however would like to have had the latest versin with bug fixes in\
\
\
\
Even with my limited application knowledge compared to others, Sean made the learning process interesting and informative. Many thanks.\
IDT was a very good course, the webi course was less useful for me personally\
\
\
As a newbie to the application, the pace was a bit too fast in places and there was not enough time for it to sink in.  But overall good trainer, Sean is obviously very knowledgable and experienced. So very good overall.\
Good, well presented course\
I really enjoyed this course and would definately recommend that it is a pre-requisite for the course we attended earlier in the week (Web Designer)\
very enjoyable, well paced course with well written course work & workshops\
I would like to say the overall experience of the day has been fantastic and I will feed this back to my Training Team on my return to the Office.  Your team were very friendly and the lunch provided was a quality add-on to the course, compared to other Training Centres\
I found the Information Design Tool manual difficult to understand. Unfortunately I have not used business objects before and there was no pre-requisite this. The trainer was rather fast for me and at times got lost which was not his fault the audience of the class was intermediate. I will however take alot away.\
Only points knocked off are due to the course booklet being a bit confusing at times - especially with regards to the exercises. They were sometimes missing steps or giving ambiguous instructions which made it quite difficult to follow them through without having to ask for clarification.\
The SAP course book is horrid, with far too many mistakes - grammatical, spelling and instructional.  Needs a darned good edit.\
Exercises in the handbook are not clearly laid out & contain typos & inconsistencies. \
\
\
Mobile phone signals were non existent, otherwise everything else was pretty good.\
\
\
Course very good but i think i would have benefited from the security admin course first.\
\
The Itelligence facilities are not the easiest to find, However the facilities themselves are excellent. Simon, the course facilitator, is extremely knowledgable and was able to answer any of the questions posed. The course contains everything required to role out and maintain an effective universe querying a variety of underlying data sources. I have no hesitation recommending it.\
Very good course - Well thought out and well explained. A good mixture of learning from show and tell to hands on. The pacing was very good as well. Although the subject of the detail was complex, the course never felt too heavy as it was broken down into good chunks.  One thing, perhaps group work, or working in pairs might add more of a class feel.  Great lunch as well!\
\
Enjoyed the course thorougly and have learnt a great deal. The course has really helped tie up my BusinessObjects knowledge. Traininer has a good delivery style and clearly answered all questions. Excellent course!\
A very detailed, but easy to follow and well structured course.  \
Excellent content, trainer had a full understanding of the subject and presented in a Cohearent manner\
Overall it was a very good course. Excellent trainer as well.\
The course was run at a very good pace and easy to understand\
Very good and very helpful\
Very knowledgable trainer\
\
\
\
 I had specific questions which the trainer took time to work through\
Requested areal covered off in addition to areal which allows for a better business application\
Very helpful and informative\
\
\
Manual only show how to do it, but lack of explanation of terms\
same useful tips and new types can be applied\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Kit provided by Lloyds were poor but Trainer was excellent\
\
Karen is as exellent trainer\
Pace was exellent\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Exellent course, loads of tips and tricks gained, very useful\
\
\
As a first time, I would have found a 2nd day perfect\
The course was brilliant but I had a squeaky chair\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Hardware/patch levels had a slowing effect of course.\
Hired hardware was very slow with an old service pack on B.O.\
Very friendly and interactive.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent course, well paced.\
Enjoyed the open discussions. I don\'82\'c4\'f4t think the section on Project Control is necessary as this is quite a generic issue.\
Some inconsistancies in the course material, which needs fixing.\
Taking us out to lunch at different venues was not expected. Very good.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Slightly later start, to avoid hectic tubes.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent, informative, friendly.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
As with the other course - maybe 2nd example/activity for practice.\
Excellent course. \
Room temperature up and down. Trainer fantastic, very useful.\
Subject matter was relevant and the pace/length of the course was just right.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Really useful and every element well explained.\
Sean is a great trainer.\
\
\
Above expected overall\
Course could run slightly quicker, otherwise provided good foundation to start building webi reports.\
Good introductory course. Could have covered more in the 2 days.\
I found the course excellent \
Pace of this course was just right.\
Quite satisfied with the course.\
The course is at the appropriate level and complexity.\
The lunch options on Tuesday were not suitable for all diets.\
Very good overall. Competant trainer.\
Would like more excercises/different examples.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
A very good course, however, the building receptionists attitude was poor.\
Good course. Poor building receptionist.\
Very happy with content and trainer.\
\
\
\
Good course and excellent trainer.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
All excellent, thanks!\
Excellent course context and well structured.\
Fix projector! (blurry again!)\
\
\
Really happy with the course. Full marks to Sean for bringing it to life! Thanks. \
Thanks Sean\
Very knowledgable and entertaining trainer.\
\
\
All good.\
Excellent course content and presentation, perfect balance.\
I was hoping more time would be spent on everything.\
Slight lack of desk space. Friendly receptionist (one of them).\
Very good learning experience.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Above expectations.\
Maybe 2 days is not enough.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Just the start I was looking for.\
Usefull oveview of a powerful technology in an intuitive way.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
First day a little bit slow.\
It would have been better on a full desktop instead of small laptops.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Really comprehensive course, great trainer!\
\
\
\
\
\
\
IT Issues, but the trainer coped well with slow laptops.\
Laptop issues.\
Laptops should be better. Trainers took some time due to laptop performance/setup. Trainer very good and coped well despite this.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Please upgrade your laptops.\
Thank you!\
Very well taught, thank you very much.\
\
\
\
Good overview and nicely structured so it was easy to follow. Did't follow manual\
Great course - easy to learn and follow.\
More detail on joining queries.\
\
\
\
Material was perfect, but a lot to absorb in a day\
Very good understanding of how reports are built up and adjusted. Still have challenges with interrogating historic data, but this is to do with our internal data warehouse, and not to do with the quality of the course.\
Very good, with very knowlegable instructor.\
Well taught, cheers.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent food!\
Presentation slides please for web links.\
Too quick in parts, too slow in others. Would have been useful to have a separate beginner/advanced course\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent. Just what I was looking for.\
\
Cooler room would be appreciated. Lunches were very good!\
Lighting in the training room gave me a headache by the end of the day.\
Trainer was excellent and very knowledgable.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent course, useful context.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent course.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very good all the way through.\
Very useful course and great teacher.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Projector has ghosting image - caused eye strain.\
\
\
\
\
\
John out across key concepts meet speed of material to cover an issue.\
This could easily be a 2 day course for functional rather than technical users.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Computer sometimes slow.\
I had no expectations from this course but discovered many things I think will be useful to me.\
\
\
Excellent!\
\
\
\
Excellent course - have gained a lot of new knowledge and will be extremely helpful.\
Excellent course. Feel confident using the tool in a work environment.\
Laptops did not run that effectively.\
Many problems with the software malfunctioning.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent pace and information.\
\
\
\
\
Chairs a little uncomfortable. Only 2 of us, so perfect. Nicky provided many helpful tips not covered in manual and showed examples.\
Chairs could be a bit more comfortable.\
A very good workshop\
Excellent course! Would highly recommend it.\
Really enjoyed it and would like to go to the advanced course!\
There was a problem with air conditioning.\
\
\
\
Bit slow pace for those using BOXI. Is everything in course manual? Good to learn BOXI as using it but with all our dupilcations in adult, not sure we can.\
I would probably benefit from the advanced training, but it is unlikey my organisation will fund this.\
I've been using BO for a while (self taught) - training was helpful to consolidate my knowledge and highlight some new things. Nicky was very good at accommodating each pupil which teaching the group.\
Nbusiness objects could be used more by us if data quality was better.\
Nice pace, friendly tutor.\
Very clear. Pace was good, not too fast. Trainer happy to take questions.\
\
\
Very knowledgable presenter. Good course.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Due to my inexperience I failed to understand all areas of BO\
Excellent course, user manuals are too small, and had to share\
Manuals have too small type - difficult to read.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
All as expected - good course.\
Of all the courses I've done here, David came across  as having the best overall knowledge of the wider product - very helpful in taking related questions.\
Pace seemed too slow for myself, but it suited needs of others.\
Room felt a bit squashed with the number of people on the course.\
Room very warm or cold. Seats could do with a clean and some WD40.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Could've been faster.\
Probably could have been faster paced.\
Thanks!\
\
Pace could be faster.\
Sean was very patient with me. A very steep learning curve. Thank you.\
The course was clear and concise. Nicky made the course easy to understand.\
Trainer able to answer my questions well.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Bit too much waiting for everyone to catch up.\
Course manual to follow. Laptop was faulty, failed to load software.\
Data tracking seems like an after thought, but potenitally it's  a huge deal.\
Excellent Session!\
Laptop not working for course.\
More on combined queries - multiple queries.\
\
\
\
\
\
Again, thank you. I've learnt I rememvered more this time.\
As never used or seen the product, I found it to be a little fast. Would have liked to see how used on own data.\
Excellent course, very knowledgable trainer. Thanks.\
May consider a pre-requesite of some excel knowledge.\
Use own company data.\
Would prefer the course to have been pitched to people who have no experience of the software.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Trainer was superb with an easy to follow delivery.\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent as always.\
Very satisfied with the overall course. Thanks Karen!\
\
\
\
\
\
Very good course.\
\
\
\
Course good in all areas, however I sometimes got left behind when PC hung and struggled to catch up with the demos.\
More workshops would be helpful - I like hands on training.\
Room too hot, chairs uncomfortable, random pace in teaching sometimes, too much data skimmed over sometimes.\
Small issue with linking universes - everything else was great!\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Thanks.\
Well organised training.\
I won't be using this all the time, but it will facilitate my needs.\
\
\
\
\
\
David was great.\
David was wonderful.\
Excellent course, 100% relevant to my role.\
Great course content, some polishing needed on course notes.\
I can't think of any good stuff.\
Knowlegable and friendly trainer.\
Pace was sometimes a little slow, but good for varying ability levels. The room was too cold.\
The training surpassed my expecations.\
Useful introduction to query report writing. System performance caused initial delays.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
I would have liked more time on items specific to my role.\
Refresher session will be required I think.\
We could not use our own data - this would be useful. Not the fault of the instructor.\
Well delivered.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
General comments - nice to use the latest service pack of SHP BO. Would encourage Karen to take questions that cannot be answered immediately and come back to students with answers.\
Very good course. Trainer experienced and skillfully passed on knowledge of BO.I. Very pleased to attend this course. Keen to apply what I learnt these two days at work. Thank you Nicky.\
\
\
\
\
Need some time to write down notices, thinking\'82\'c4\'b6\
\
\
Can you email me slides please.\
\
\
\
Frist view - look forward to real time and use of application.\
\
\
\
\
\
Again, the seats are not the best quality.\
Brilliant instructor; used relevant examples and happy to field questions.\
Manual needs review to match course pace to allow for easy annotations. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Really good adaptation of course to meet our requirements - thank you.\
Very good course. Thanks to itelligence.\
\
\
\
\
Excellent trainer, thank you!\
Have covered a lot of it previously. The systems upgrade was useful.\
Health related data, otherwise perfect.\
Room not conductive to training, and no lunch!\
The room was very stuffy and too warm - hard to concentrate at times.\
Useful, thank you.\
Very good course - glad I chose itelligence.\
Warm room, slow lapton, excellent trainer.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Once again, the best trainer.\
\
\
All in all, it was a great learning experience.\
Sean is very knowledgable and personable. Laura (receptionisht) was very friendly and helpful. Some diagrams in the book are slightly out of sync with slides (arrow placement).\
Written material not used therefore 'Manual' marked down.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent training centre. Best live experience.\
Shaun uses a lot of 'real world' examples, which makes it easier to grasp the concepts. Ladies toilet could be cleaner.\
The trainer was the best.\
The Trainer was very good.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Could've done with more detail. Poorly organised, delayed start, quite slow, but infor covered was detailed and beneficial. \
Ideally an intermediate course, was hoping for more formulas, subquery etc. examples. Also formating entire report.\
The course was excellently presented and totally relevent.\
Training was very clear and well presented.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
David shows a real passion for the subject and therefore makes it engaging.\
Functionality will enable me to request future threats to existing files provided by the team in India (requiring less manipulation on my part in excel).\
Good advanced training aswell probably would have been useful, but I'm told this is another course.\
Some areas are not covered, e.g. Federation.\
Very basic introduction; thought the level would be higher.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Aggregate awareness would be useful. \
The course was very informative and Nicky was very knowledgable\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Some elements not covered by course, e.g. Federation.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Use links to own company data bases.\
Very enjoyable and well paced.\
Was very interesting course that will help me in the future. Thank you.\
Well delivered course and the correct pace - workshops were valuable as was the manuel.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
I.T Equipment was problematic at times and did impact on occasions.\
Pace of course affected by slow laptops!\
Please can the chairs be replaced - backs are giving way.\
Confirmed existing knowledge and filled in a few gaps.\
Excellent course and introduction to designer.\
Second course with Dovia. Very good course.\
The lessons and material were very good, felt 'tailor-made' for our needs'\
Would rate better if audience had had a more similar level. Nothing the trainer could influence! Just thanks.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Clear explanation of access levels groups and folders, and their respective relationships - Thank you!\
Great Job.\
Would like to see our actual date/universe.\
\
\
\
\
\
Good course, well delivered.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent course and trainer, thank you.\
Excellent training, very knowlegable and enthusiastic trainer - thank you.\
I would have preferred more hands on work to start with, and I would have preferred greater query knowledge as aps in contrast to cosmetics.\
One of the best presented courses I have attended in over 25 years.\
Really enjoyed the course, very good trainer and course content.\
Well delivered by Lyle and lots learnt, which can be applied back in the workplace.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very useful course. Thank you.\
\
\
\
\
Exactly what I required for the use of Webi on current projects\
Excellent course and delivery.\
Excellent.\
Very informative and clear training.\
\
\
\
Faster pace would be better.\
Good refresher - the facilities were poor but it\'82\'c4\'f4s the NHS - No budget!\
\
\
\
\
Excellent.\
Excellent.\
The course was extremely useful and I am now a much more empowered user.\
The pace was set assuming a working knowledge of the system, and having only worked on it for two day I did struggle a little.\
Very good course.\
Very useful.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Pace was a little slow at times, but this was probably as a result of the group having mixed abilities\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
A very good day, enjoyed. Now need to put into practice.\
Excellent course, very useful.\
In some areas I found it difficult to keep up due to lack of IT experience and knowledge.\
\
Learnt a lot.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Gratefull for the extra information about other courses etc.\
Stress that everything is in booklets.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent - Thank you.\
More documentation would be useful, and slides.\
\
\
\
\
\
It met my expectations - Very good course.\
Manuals still don't have indexes! Room was too hot and stuffy/cramped. Refreshments - not as good as they were under BPMS\
Toilet facilities dark and in need of refurbishment.\
\
\
\
\
Very thorough course, well trained out - Thanks!\
\
\
\
\
\
\
I thought the sessions were delivered at a really good pace. Plenty of time for practice and thorough explanation.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent course and trainer!\
Excellent course.\
Karen is a great trainer, very approachable and will to spend time talking through questions.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
I didn't know what to expect from the course, so had no predefined expectations.\
Ideally need actual data to use for real.\
It was great for my expectation of uinderstanding what's possible. We need super users and them to support others who don't use this frequently - our issue. Pace was too slow for me but ok for the group.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Bigger manuals.\
\
Having 2 months experience with webi in B1-4 there was very little new in this course for me, this this was a problem of my situation, not the course.\
It was hard because there were very differing levels of experience- I'd have liked it to go a bit faster. Good though!\
Very useful course.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
As with all courses, problems with the IT setup.\
Some technology issues, not of trainers causing.\
\
As expected.\
I found the manuals exercises heavy going, I was often two or three steps ahead.\
Manuals and exercises a bit unclear, but overall  a good course.\
Still have blueprint branding - e.g mousemats, pads. Lessons were not very clear in the manuel.\
Very good and well prepared.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Above expectations.\
\
\
\
\
Overview of BO Architecture.\
\
\
\
\
Fruit on offer would be great.\
\
\
\
\
Course was at a good pace, covered many topics, opportunities for feedback.\
Even more workshop examples would have been good + pace could have been a little quicker on the first morning.\
Marra's difficult to see code\
Nicky was great - nice to go on a course aimed at beginners that wasn't too fast!\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
All excellent, thoroughly enjoyed it.\
Great course, will help me massively, and Sean is great.\
Great lunch and variety.\
Very good. Facilities perfect.\
Well structured course.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very good, thanks.\
\
Screens were too small.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Course was a little quick, hard to follow ar rimes. Needed a little more time for absorbtion.\
I would like a test at the end of the course.\
Rushed through examples at times not allowing for notes to be taken without missing instruction.\
Very well presented.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Could have been faster paced on first day.\
Feel the course could have gone at a faster pace and contained more advanced information, but overall was very helpful.\
It would have been extremely useful if the training environment reflected the JV environment.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
A two day course might help slow thye pace of lessons. \
Above expectations.\
Detailed course, covering lots of areas.\
Excellent course, both in content and trainer. Flexible and tailored approach to meet specific needs. Really good! Really impressive practical course! \
Fantastic - covered points in more detail on what I asked! Thanks.\
Fantastic course, well paced, and very interesting - lots of useful tips!\
Great course, well run.\
I think it might have been better to leave a longer gap between the basic course and this one.\
Lyle is an excellent trainer, he really knows his stuff. The pace was a bit too quick for me.\
Particularly liked using 'real world' issues and how to resolve.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent trainer; pace ideal.\
It was great to finally be allowed to look at universes.\
The SAP Manual has lots of errors.\
Update manual to correct mistakes. Some errors found.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent trainer; pace ideal.\
My personal objectives are DB development, not B.O.\
Seats were slightly uncomfortable.\
Some topics were rushed a little bit.\
Too low a level, too slow, should have done advanced course.\
Trainer was very knowledgable and answered all queries.\
Well structured and taught course.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Enjoyed the course, very useful for my role.\
Great course, well presented. Tasks could have been more challenging.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
It was an easy and relaxed way to teach such a complex subject. Very well Done.\
\
\
Good course.\
\
Good Course, well presented.\
\
\
\
\
Very good venue. Knowledgable trainer.\
\
\
\
Above expectations.\
New course material could match presentation more - manual needs updating.\
Very educative.\
Very good, only negative is course book didn't follow interactive training.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Trainer had good knowledge of the product. Exercises based on real usage and requirements.\
\
All very good (even the lunches).\
Excellent course and trainer.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
If it were possible, to include some interactive workshops.\
\
Can I have a version of the manual please, as I would like to put in my knowledge base.\
Pace could have been slightly slower.\
Pace was good but slower than expected. Perhaps groups should be split on skill sets.\
Room was very hot (not ideal)\
Training environment not ideal - too hot.\
Training room was too hot and stuffy.\
Would have been useful to use some Network Rail data to find out the information analyse to user.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Ideally the course could link into our subject better (real examples etc).\
Room a bit hot!\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very good course, delivered and presented well.\
\
Adventureworks 2008 database is too large. Further Northwind activities would help.\
Good basic introduction to TSQL. Would have preferred a more advanced look into techniques.\
I would prefer for the theory to be immediately followed with a practical exercise.\
Well paced, well presented and extremely useful. Thank you.\
You scored low for facilities because it was delivered in-house in a cramped office.\
\
\
I was a late addition to the course Wed 5pm/Thursday. Thankfully I was told I would attend & share a laptop. I was surprised the trainer hadn't been updated to bring an extra manual as Philip at iTelligence was informed. Nicky was very good and sorted a s\
Overall well presented etc, but would have liked a bit more speed.\
Possibly use some of our internal data.\
Temperature variable.\
\
\
\
David was an excellent trainer. Course gave a good introduction to the features . It was easy to follow the course. We covered a lot of useful, if basic, areas.\
Excellent product, well presented, good pace, good pitch. Issue with wrong version was dealt with very well.\
\
\
I need to practice!\
Manuals have no index.\
Really good, well paced and sufficiently detailed.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent course\
Excellent presentation skills and very knowledgable, well organised. \
Not quite enough time.\
Very professional \
\
\
Course very good.\
Instructor was excellent, however course material may not be 100% useful in future as we use third party plugins for security. Now I understand why!\
Should have separate screens or keyboards for laptops!\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Best training class I have been to in a long time, very amusing presentation skills.\
\
A tutor that gets you all involved and keeps to alert instead of wanting to sleep at the back!\
\
\
What a fab and interesting session \
Enjoyed the course this year. Different trainer this year than previously. Good choice in my opinion. Made an important but otherwise tedious subject easier to bear !\'82\'c4\'f4\
\
\
So useful\
Excellent session trainer very good and made the session very enjoyable \
\
Excellent presentation and very knowledgeable tutor who made the session enjoyable and interesting. \
Great speaker. Made interesting \
Very interactive \
\
I would be more than happy to attend a course run by Maggie again. Approachable, at an appropriate level and backed up by relevant resources.\
Fabulous presenter.  Very knowledgeable & entertaining. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
Thank you so much for an outstanding imms and vaccines update, best yet!!!\
\
Brilliant \
\
\
Very good course\
\
\
\
\
\
Loved it. Would have liked it to have been longer but Maggie was brilliant. \
well delivered .\
\
\
\
Would have been useful to have had an update in specific vaccine changes for this year. \
\
Excellent trainer, kept audience focussed and was good to revisit practice\
Really good and interesting \
\
\
\
Fantastic speaker Maggie. Could listen to her all day \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Dom was really helpful and patient with us. I learnt a lot that I have taken away and will hopefully use in my current role.\
Motivational and engaging trainer.  Interesting perspectives on content and able to help me gain a better understanding of course information and how to implement it into my branch. \
\
\
Really enjoyed learning the different management techniques against my understanding of learning styles.  Also manage vs leader\
I feel much more confident. The course has provided me with great skills and techniques that I will use throughout my career.  \
I thought it was great! she challenged me in my thoughts and perception I have already auctioned things  I learnt yesterday !\
I enjoyed the day with Grainne and Fiona and found them to be engaging trainers, and could relate well to our business.  I think day 2 sounds as though it may be more useful to myself personally, but I did take a lot from Day 1, including producing more structured QBP's , the importance of vision, Ansoff's Matric, BD planning and understanding my personal values.\
Great training session, very inspiring and left feeling motivated and full of lots of fresh and new ideas.\
\
The pace was good - Grainne was incredibly dynamic and entertaining - a beneficial and enjoyable training course\
Tim was very engaging and made the course fun and entertaining. the way he understood everyone's needs and objectives was very impressive. i felt confident and at ease in telling him what i need to improve. how he got to the bottom of our problems and the solutions he found to them were very impressive. Tim made me realise that i could combat my objections with ease if i take a step back and think about them. overall nice guy and very good trainer. \
Unusually for a recruitment training course, the majority of the material was relevant and realistic to the role of a Recruiter!  I enjoyed it and Grainne was a lot of fun and really engaging.   \
Brilliant training - Tim was a very engaging and informative trainer, and explained things very well.  Lots of activities and role plays to keep you thinking and cement the content.  \
A whole day of training can sometimes be tiring and is quite easy to 'drift off' towards the end of the day, however, Grainne was so engaging (and funny!) and I felt fully engaged throughout the whole course. One of the best training days I have had! \
Grainne was fantastic. Probably the best training course I've been on.\
Fantastic training! Really enjoyable and looking forward to implementing this. \
\
\
\
\
The course was very good and had very good information, I feel that most of what I learnt I could put into practice, the training was very good and interactive. \
Tim Norton was very informative and a great motivator thanks.\
A lot of useful tools to experiment with and develop from an obviously seasoned and experience industry expert.  Grainne  has an entertaining  and engaging presentation style, using relative and relevant examples to our profession. \
\
Grainne was a very knowledgeable recruiter who has been through most experiences in recruitment. She has strong knowledge and background which I have taken on board and will try and implement within my day to day. \
\
\
\
Excellent training - delivered extremely well \
\
Dom was really friendly and has big knowledge. I am really satisfied with the course \
\
\
Dominic was very helping and understood every problem and fear in which we was all facing, explained every detail clearly and was made to feel relaxed, great training coach \
The course was excellent and Dom changed the content to fit our objectives and it worked really well\
\
i only attended half the day and my only observation was that it was very samey as the one we did before other than that thoroughly enjoyed itx\
\
\
Charlie is a first rate trainer, the skills she has taught me are invaluable. They have helped me adapt my approach, adding processes that without doubt will add value to me and my company. I am looking forward to seeing the results on my desk! Highly recommended!\
Learned a few things that I dodn't expect, overall a good session\
\
The course was interesting, definitely learnt some new skills.  Particularly enjoyed the 3 'yes' sales call technique.  Something I am keen to try after a little practice on my colleagues!  I've also already put in practice candidates own punchy line which they feel will make them stand out.  I feel this works really well.  I did find some of the fees slightly unrealistic to start with for 'the high street agency' or my area in particular (33% fee's as an average) .. I think they were possibly more focused to the London market or specialist 'IT' recruitment.  We did discuss this in a team with Grainne and I think an 18% fee was agreed to be more realistic.  Grainne was very engaging, however due to the amount of information presented I did find myself 'daydreaming' on a few occasions.    I think the course needs to be split into maybe 2 days, with shorter periods for concentration.  Course could possibly benefit from video examples of a 'good' sales call and 'bad' sales call / client engagement process etc...   I would also suggest more examples of objections and how to deal with those. Maybe again real situation examples (audio or visual).   I think this would have been helpful to the new recruits who haven't done recruitment before.  Overall, I enjoyed the course, I think it's definitely helpful, Grainne did an excellent job in the short time given.  Thank you.\
\
Would've been nice to have done a little more objection handling, conversation examples, etc. Also a little more interactive exercises with the trainer rather than guessing games in groups would have proved more beneficial.\
Really excellent course and superb trainer.  I have gained lots from the day. Potentially could have been over two days instead as felt the last couple of hours was a little rushed and more time could have been spent on the subjects. \
\
\
I felt the training was supportive and interactive and provided real practical solutions that I feel comfortable implementing in my role day to day.  I thought Tim's approach was really pragmatic and made the content of the course relateable.   I would certainly look forward to attending training courses delivered by Tim in the future. \
I found Tim to be very knowledgeable about the subject matter and always had good examples of his past experiences within recruitment to assist with any current issues the group were having.  I would highly recommend Tim and his training to my colleagues!    \
Maybe 3 days was too long - might be worth separating for a separate candidate/networking day \
Tim was really good, he had knowledge in lots of different areas and used plenty of examples for each area that Sellick deal with.  \
To keep a group of 9 engaged over 3 days is very hard but Tim did it effortlessly. He proved not only incredible knowledge but the way he showed us how to implement it in a real life situation was great.\
I feel like I have learnt a lot from completing this course \
\
\
\
\
\
\
The only reason I did not rate 5 starts for all questions is because the morning session was broken up with activities and the afternoon was purely talking/tuition in the same room.  Despite the course content being good it was a little hard to stay on form all afternoon. I really appreciated how the content had been tailored to the objectives of our group, I feel my requests had been properly addressed.  This did mean a lot of the material in the hand out was not addressed and we felt me missed out a little because it looked so good!  I appreciate there wasn't time for everything however. \
\
Excellent course overall. Everyone involved took something different from the content.  Being one of the more advanced members in the group, I did find a portion of the course to be old hat.  However, it did remind me of a few things I have been neglecting to do recently.  The less advanced members of my Group appear to have benefited greatly from the Training provided. Hopefully this training will help them achieve more, and the more experienced guys can refresh their knowledge, implementing some techniques that have been forgotten.  The Linkedin portion of the course highlighted how important a tool it is and I have now improved my profile to nearer the Standard described by Dom. \
Would be great to delve deeper into each 'type' of sourcing for candidates and how to actually exacute them. I.E sales scripts.\
\
Being fairly new to Recruitment i absolutely loved the training. I learned a great deal that will help me moving forwards and i was left wanting to learn more!\
\
\
\
Overall the training was useful but most of the points were covered in the first half. Could potentially have shorter sessions before concentration levels dip.\
\
This course came a very good time for me - I needed to revise the way I worked (I know I haven't been working as smart as I could have done over the last few months) especially as this has been the first quarter since I've been actively working as a billing consultant I've not hit target.  I found Grainne very engaging, with a wealth of knowledge (impressive she kept my attention for so long as I'm a typical activist!) - I need to properly prepare my plan of attack now re. new ways of working - Grainne refreshed my memory re. a lot of standard recruitment tasks I wasn't doing anymore, as well as gave me some fresh ideas to focus on.  Overall one of the best courses I've attended in my 5+ years a Recruitment Consultant - I think it was very beneficial to have such an experienced consultant as the trainer, as I genuinely had respect for her. I think this course would be very useful for some of my colleagues too!\
\
Grannia was a fantastic trainer - really engaging and quick to draw on personal experience - which I found very relate-able. I thought the morning of the course more valuable than the afternoon. I picked up some good specific action points based around DM and candidate call numbers, gate keepers etc, that I have instantly implemented into my weekly plans.  The afternoon was interesting and I found it useful to look at industry standards and big biller rations etc - however I found there was a lot focused around general process which I think we knew quite a lot of already. That part seemed a little more basic.   Overall I picked up some really good action points but I think the course could have cut out some sections and maybe be slightly condensed. A half day course I think would probably have been more beneficial. \
\
Found the trainer very engaging and knowledgeable, and liked her style and approach.    I found the morning most insightful and took away a lot of positive things from it, however the afternoon less so.  I'm not sure if this was because it was the afternoon and things get slightly tougher, or whether the content and the way it was delivered was more suitable for an audience that is perhaps less experienced in recruitment.  \
Really good course, helped me with planning my day and how to deal with clients.  \
\
\
Grainne was excellent with plenty of experience to leverage off. I was very happy with some of the tools and techniques she passed me with regards to building the desk and securing long term sustained business. Looking forward to the next session!\
Great trainer and very efficient training Thank you\
\
Dominic covered all the relevant matters. Everything very well structured and organized to our needs. The personal insight and feedback to each one of us were very useful.\
\
Brilliant Day 1, training was excellent and very clear \
\
I definitely learned a lot on this course and found the core content to be beneficial. I do feel the content could have been covered in a shorter time frame and in a more relaxed environment.\
\
\
\
\
As this was my first train the trainer - I loved how it was broken down piece by piece and it was very concise also.  We had a lot of information to take in but it was broken down really relevantly and very interactive also. \
\
Fiona is an excellent trainer, great command of the group and still interactive will all individually. Very constructive feedback from Fiona, makes the course very enjoyable and would highly recommend her and the course. Very enjoyable \
\
Fantastic session,  before I had a haphazard approach to training.  No I feel I have the tools to structure a training session properly,  keep my audience engage,  several ideas and tools to deliver a multi-channeled message which I feel will make my overall sessions better.\
\
\
Grianne was very easy to get along with, her teaching styles were easy to follow and lots of information and training material was given, would highly recommend to anyone looking to gain knowledge in recruitment \
We didn't refer back to the learning style questionnaire results during the training\
Charlotte is incredibly knowledgeable and professional. Relating the course materials to real-life scenarios was really helpful. Discussing business development and planning was pertinent to each consultant's desk strategy.\
I found the training very informative. I've already been using the training and development programme handbook for speaking with clients/candidates, and for planning my week efficiently. \
\
\
\
Highly engaged trainer with relevant experience within the recruitment sector. Successfully increased my knowledge in areas of weakness and quality of training was overall very good. \
\
\
Objectives clearly understood and I have the tools in place to action them\
\
\
Really enjoyed the course and couldn't fault it. Have taken a lot away from the course: setting the objectives of the interview and what you expect from the candidate, importance of structure, don't be afraid to probe or ask the candidate for another example.   Dom was very engaging and clearly an expert in his field. Dom was approachable for us to ask any questions too. \
Really good explanation of star method and how to structure the interview.  Good tips on screening the candidate through interview focusing on positive not just negatives. how are they a good candidate. \
\
Thanks for a great day. The most useful lander training I have had! \
\
Great training session and enjoyed the content - interesting stuff when you think about it all and a good memory refresher\
\
 It has been a delight to meet and able to work with Grainne such a down to earth, experienced, open lady  What I like about her style and approach as she has had over 25 years experience of recruitment / recruiting she understands what I am talking about or need to explore at an executive level which is refreshing   I very much look forward to meeting with her I just wish it could be on a month to month basics as it is quality time in a safe environment to brain storm and have open conversation about my business which I need as being an ex Manager, in the business for 23 years and the only person running an executive team / business I have know mentor or business partner to run thoughts by or discus solutions   I do hope Parkside can see the importance  of keeping investing in my and development   with continued business coaching next year on a monthly  basics with Grainne and Toby as both very different but I like both their approaches for different reasons \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The pace was a little slow at times for me personally, but not for the group, so it was good to be able to try some of the features and get some assistance on those from Julie.  I thought she did a great job and would recommend her as a trainer. Thank you. \
\
good course, well structured.\
Name was spelt wrong on certificate, also confirmation email after joining info received would be helpful\
\
\
Good succinct training. I just gave 1 star on the last question as we did not do any exercises, it was all watching on the screen.\
\
Really good course for the other Power Users but was a little basic for Ross N and myself\
How well do you feel you will be able to put your knowledge gained into practice.  My 3 star score is more a reflection of my ability / understanding of the product.  Julie did really well with a mixed ability group.\
\
The exercises were useful, but would benefit from being formally written down, with the answers \
\
\
\
Workshops at the end of each section useful to consolidate learning  Was able to ask questions specific to my workplace which was helpful\
\
\
\
\
Was very happy with the content covered, training environment and refreshments.\
Very nice environment and great interactive with high level of teaching and knowledge. Just keep you in this level.\
\
\
Cassim and Julie were both very professional and extremely helpful. Julie demonstrated a wealth of knowledge and experience with the product. Julie's training skills are exceptional and her training style suited all the students. The training literature and materials are a good quality and great content which will assist after the course. THANK YOU so much to both Julie and Cassim!!\
Cassim and Julie were both very professional and extremely helpful. Julie demonstrated a wealth of knowledge and experience with the product. Julie's training skills are exceptional and her training style suited all the students. The training literature and materials are a good quality and great content which will assist after the course. THANK YOU so much to both Julie and Cassim!!\
Very nice environment and great interactive with high level of teaching and knowledge. Just keep you in this level.\
Very nice environment and great interactive with high level of teaching and knowledge. Just keep you in this level.\
More tomorrow\
\
would be useful to receive quick reference how to guide as well as full manual\
Very useful, with a great environment & atmosphere\
\
exceptionally friendly and welcoming environment and staff\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Good course for those looking to get a bottom up learning of the tool\
\
Overall a good course and covered more than I was expecting. Has left me wanting to test out numerous things back in the workplace and will use BO with more confidence.\
excellent course and trainer, wl be able to apply this learnng at work straight away.\
\
\
\
Super course, super trainer\
Exellent course, excellent trainer. New skill leart will be put to good use!\
Where we go for our training is governed by an outside agency.\
A very enjoyable and useful one-to-one course.  I would recommend that universe designers, as a pre-requisite,  should have a reasonable working knowledge of the IDT tool before booking the course (and do not take the course immediately after the standard IDT course).  Many thanks to Julie ant the team for the excellent course and hospitality.\
\
Book provided by Julie much better than SAP provided one.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Course was great with good worked examples.\
\
Very informative and useful course to gain basic and intermediate understanding of the web intelligence. Well run and very engaging\
Excellent course and trainer happy to clarify or re-cover any points\
\
An excellent training session, with good interactive exercises and an encouraging trainer.\
The course was well taught and I cannot not wait to put it to use\
\
\
Excellent trainer,  Good course content , well paced. Nice venue, very good refreshments!\
\
\
Well structured course, delivered by \
Excellent course which gives a good basic understanding of Universe creation\
\
A very well presented course that has increased my understanding of the subject\
\
\
\
Julie the trainer was really helpful & explained all really well.  & also answered any questions or explained any queries again if needed.  overall really enjoyed the course & this was added that the trainer was really good.\
\
\
\
My only advice to other customers might be that the beginner and advanced course together are fairly intense.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Black and white snapshots in training book unclear.\
really useful to help us having moved from 3 to 4.1 and refreshing things that we dont use as training was initially when very new and now know more about system can understand some more complicated bits\
\
\
Excellent thank you.  Given me many ideas as to how it can be used to improve reporting\
\
\
\
I was so inspired by Baljit, her knowledge and passion shone through and very quickly built confidence and trust.  The course itself really brought the subject to life and there was no point in the day that I was not fully engaged\
I think that it should be compulsory that managers attend this training session\
Useful course which made you think, and gave you more confidence to speak up if you are not happy with something.\
\
Copies of the presentation would be helpful\
It was recommended that everyone in the team attend this course.\
Particularly liked the advise about how to deal with complaints against staff. Working in mental health I have to deal with a lot of complaints - I know feel much more confident.\
It was a fantastic session, really informative and I learnt a lot as well as serving as an invaluable reminder of the legislation and best practice.\
\
A really useful and informative afternoon, we didn't cover all the questions in the board game but I feel that was not essential to the learning for the day. Very useful to do the training as a group from our own teams to share experiences and understanding of the process to ensure everyone has the same approach and knowledge\
Very interesting course well presented and very informative\
We seemed to run out of time towards the end so we didn't have any time for final questions\
I really enjoyed the course and June was very polite and helpful and made you feel at ease. She was very knowledgeable and could answer questions. It just felt restricted due to the time, but i would recommend people to go on the course.\
Excellent training. \
A very enjoyable and informative session.  The trainer was very engaging and knowledgeable. \
Brilliant trainer ,stays on track while also encouraging feed back and conversation \
\
Apart from the 'mansplaining' and 'manterrupting' references, I felt the whole session was useful, on point and certainly invited and encouraged self reflection.\
To be honest I was expecting this training to be quite 'dry' however the trainer June (I think) was really good and made the topics relatable to everyday interactions.  \
Overall though, very good.\
\
I thought the course was a little outdated. Some of the concepts that we spoke about I felt the instructor didn't really understand the concept. For example - when speaking about unconscious bias, the concept of nature vs nurture was completely overlooked and used examples from the perspective of high management. \
\
All the information  was relevant  & I  have dealt with lots of  different issues in my long service its  jyst nice to  get a refresher every now and again  and share others  experiences \
It was an extremely educational session, Baljit explained things really well, you were drawn into what she was saying.\
I loved it - very thought provoking. \
A great all round session that would benefit different teams at all levels of prior understanding. Interaction and group sessions encourage discussion, viewpoints and give angles from across a range of situations.\
\
Enjoyed (and found useful) the training. Would have liked a little bit longer for lunch!\
Training was very helpful and work book very useful.  Trainer had a good knowledge of complaints procedure. \
\
\
I thought Akin was a great trainer. He had the right amount of enthusiasm for the role but was also able to realise that not everything fit perfectly into a given category. I thought the best parts of the training were when he was actually delivering the session as opposed to the workshop parts. \
Good, informative, well delivered participatory course that informed and educated the attendees\
\
Akin and Judith are excellent and know their subject. Always useful to have a reminder and try to move away from the negativity of perception of a complaint either by myself or within my team\
\
I have not given a full rating as the course was not fully completed.\
good interactive course\
\
I found the course very interesting and the information provided was very good to take on board when dealing with service users and their families \
\
\
Loved it!\
It would have been interesting to hear feedback around the group and if the training had been successful from the trainer as this was not covered with me \
Some hand out will be appreciated \
\
\
Thought the Trainer put the information across very interestingly.\
\
\
N/A\
\
Great course! Would 10 / 10 recommend. \
\
\
\
\
I thoroughly enjoyed this session. \
It was a very beneficial session.\
This should be open to all employees\
\
\
\
\
\
\
We all really enjoyed it.   PS - St. Leger Homes of Doncaster (not St. Legers or St. Ledger) \
A really helpful session - it was great getting to grips with the game!\
Atkin is a great trainer, he makes you feel at ease and not afraid to ask questions along the way.\
Try and bring repetitive discussions to an end sooner so that they don't take up so much time. Also consider refocussing the group when they go off subject.  It may be that too much was being fitted in to a half day course but it did seem like we missed quite a bit.  If you ask people to say what they want to get from the course it may be useful to revisit that at the end of the course so make sure everyone's expectations have been met.  It seemed that the course was being recorded and a mobile phone and this was very off putting. I don't know why it was being recorded or what will be done with the recording. This was never discussed. I my opinion you should get permission before recording people but this was not done.  \
\
I found the course very relevant and due to making this fun and very informative I feel I have learnt a lot and have retained the information.\
\
\
The training was enjoyable and well informative\
I thoroughly enjoyed the training. I found this very informative. The Trainer Akin  was very straight to the point when explaining anything. Having a good sense of humour makes anyone want to listen and learn. Overall course very informative.\
Overall a very useful course to attend. \
Great course that learned me alot. \
This course was well delivered, I believe I have gained more knowledge to pass on to other  members of staff.\
Very well led session, instructor kept everyone involved and motivated.\
\
\
\
With So much to cover it seems there isn't enough time. All the content was useful.\
I enjoy the session very much  and I like how the trainers worked together in their delivery I'm more informed now and hope to be able to use the information within all areas of my work and social intervention.\
Trainers were very well equiped with information and answers .\
I thought the training was timely, especially since these new changes come into force on the 25th. The trainers took away some of the fear around making such important changes, to the way in which we collate and maintain individuals, and group personal data.  In my opinion, the training delivery was excellent, and the pace of the training was spot on.  I would feel comfortable in recommending your training model.\
Overall, I thought the course was highly informative and the practical and fun approach helped to embed learning. I liked the discussions as this encouraged you to think and apply the law to 'real life' situations.\
I thoroughly enjoyed the course it was participatory,engaging and informative. the trainers were knowledgeable and receptive to questions which where answered with clarity and confidence.\
\
\
Informative course and well delivered\
Given the huge range that this touches it would have been exceptionally helpful to have printed material to refer to.\
The board game was particularly good and should have gone on for longer as it generated a lot of healthy discussion regarding scenarios that we could find ourselves in at the workplace.  \
\
A very useful and interesting session which was very well presented by an affable lady.\
Loved it.  Great to carve out time during the working day to give focus to this important area.  Language is evolving and usage tells (new starters particularly) alot about the organisation.  It's especially important for our language to reflect our the progressive brand. \
\
\
\
There was a man on his phone and one on his computer throughout the training which I felt was disrespectful to June\
\
well done\
\
\
Really fun interactive day which I got a lot out of\
A very interesting and relevant course, this is the second time I have attended the course and have recommended it to all the managers\
no certificates were given out to say the course has been attended for staff files any chance of 2 certificates been provided for stephen glenwright and michelle glenwright to put on file and to be complaints champions for the home certificates of the training would be helpful in showing staff they have had relevant training to deal with complaints.\
\
\
Excellent training, would recommend to others.  the trainer and support were very informative and knowledgeable. \
The trainer was evidently very skilled in this area and presented an informative and enjoyable session. \
\
Shame we never got to finish the game, but we were told we might not get to the end\
I found the course very enjoyable \
\
\
Considering the topic is quite boring, I feel that it was presented in a way that was engaging, fun and enjoyable. I was very satisfied with the training, and would recommend this to other managers.\
I enjoyed the format of the course. The group work was thought provoking. The subject matter which could have been quite dry was approached in a fun and innovative way.\
I though the course was delivered very well.  Having people from different job's and from different organisations was a good was to run the course.  The mix was very good.\
excellent session. trainer was very good\
\
The trainer was very helpful and knowledgeable and good fun as well as informative\
the course was informative however in my opinion was the basics of dealing with complaints. I would personally recommend the course to someone who has just started dealing with customers and complaints. to make it more relevant to myself i would like more example complaints to be used as well as more difficult complaints where the customer is being told something that they don't want to be told. Being taught how to write complaints where the customer is being told 'no' but wont escalate of the back of your response. \
\
I found the course very useful and I am sure people at all levels will have gained something form the short course that it was\
We really enjoyed the session with Mel. She was insightful into human behavior and the depth of her knowledge was evident. The course was custom made for RRG and that is helping us deliver a bespoke experience to our teams. The game is a great way to discuss difficult situations and to help participants realize the difference between a vision and reality and how to set intent to achieve the vision. I cant thank Mel enough for her role in equipping us to deliver the Diamond Customer Journey\
\
As above \
\
\
Overall, I think the training was incredibly beneficial and made me more passionate about creating a customer-centric business. \
\
\
\
I enjoyed the training day as it was mostly group work / interactive which I work well with. The trainer was really helpful and knowledgeable. It was a fun day and I learnt a lot. \
\
\
it was interesting and it was nice to exchange stories, ideas and experiences. \
The exercise at the end of the day was quite difficult to do. This was due to everyone being mentally tired. It may be a benefit to do this exercise early in the day in order to examine responses as we progressed through the board game\
I enjoyed the session as all areas  of safeguarding was covered and also it was good to hear stories from other work colleagues what they had witnessed in the past.  All the cases that were talked about and the outcomes etc... or surprising outcomes . Good afternoon, very informative\
\
I found the course interesting and thought provoking \
\
\
\
Very engaging session, extremely knowledgeable trainer.\
\
The session revealed to us what strengths each of us have as facilitators, including some surprises, which strengthened the group's sense of mutual support.\
\
\
\
\
I had no issues with delivery of the training. I thought the game was a really creative way to learn. I had never done anything like that and I really enjoyed it. the trainer was very good at generating linked discussions too. I didn't feel l learned anything from the day as it was all things I do on a day to day basis but I guess it was a bit useful to mingle with colleagues. \
\
It would be good to receive a training programme before the session with an outline of the session.\
\
\
Allison was a great facilitator, She judged the group well and provided excellent feedback, making everyone feel valued and included.  \
\
\
Really enjoyed this course, felt I gained from it but really did not like being put on the spot for role play! \
\
\
It was really fantastic.  It was interesting to be faced with some difficult scenarios and I was surprised how i found a couple of them difficult to answer.  That's where the group discussions came in really useful.  Listening to other peoples opinions as well learning the principles of the equality act.  \
Really enjoyable session - thanks for coming! \
\
N/A\
\
\
\
\
\
The training needs to be rolled out to all practitioners and business support so they can better understand the nature of complaints and the process taken by investigating officers. \
\
\
\
Overall I believe that this day was of limited value to me although the training was largely enjoyable and prompted reflection\
I really enjoyed the course. I am don't get much out of courses where there is a task to do every 5 minutes and when each person has to talk in front of the group but there wasn't much of this in this training course so I felt I had time to listen and reflect.\
I have thoroughly enjoyed the whole course and having the opportunity to meet with different parts of the business has helped to bring the One Mears to life. Leone has been a superb trainer, keeping me engaged and really helping me to understand how my approach to managing people or projects can bring success to my area of the business.\
\
Leone was so personable and easy to speak to. She has great knowledge of how to empower people and was amazing at giving every member of the team enough attention to achieve their personal goals.\
Was very nice to meet everyone and work with all throughout the course.\
\
I found this course very interesting and informative. The trainer was first rate.\
I enjoyed working with and learning from Leonie\
\
A very good session that provided solutions to resolve complaints at the earliest opportunity and taking ownership of the issue before it became formalised. \
useful tool to go away with \
\
\
Really enjoyed the session. I have changed how I reply to any query hoping to nip any complaints in the bud.\
\
Very informative course - would benefit all if it could be a full day.\
\
\
\
This was one of the best sessions on our programme so far. The tempo of the whole discussion was intense throughout. Akin delivered a very engaging and thought provoking talk. \
\
\
Akin was fantastic as host - thoroughly engaging with the group.\
\
\
\
I felt the exercise would have been more effective earlier on in the programme. \
\
\
I always leave the sessions feeling empowered and with ideas on how to work in different ways.\
I am a little concerned that for the people who were not able to attend the training aspect of the day I feel that it should not be up to the group to update the missing people except for the details around the project and their involvement.\
\
\
Melissa was fantastic and I felt I could ask her anything, she made the group feel comfortable and as a group we really connected and enjoyed the two day course.\
We raised that the session in September is only 1 day and this is insufficient based upon the content of NCSW - we want to get it right for the business yet we have little time other than our own time to plan.  We have arranged to meet on the 5th September before the session on the 6th but I feel this should be factored into the session.  As above, Laura Siddals required feedback about the partv she is 'playing' in the programme.  She is ill prepared, promised to inform us who our Mentors are and I, half way through the course do not know who this is.  Laura had promised this on 3 occasions now.  \
Absolutely excellent, made me look at the complaints procedure as supportive rather than a punishment.\
Enjoyed the experience and the trainers input were very relevant.\
The course was very valuable to look at my practice and listen to other managers experiences and the trainers comments\
The training was very good. It gave me more of an understanding of how to complain. It also may me aware when I do my supervisions I will be able to assist anyone who wants to put a complaint into the line manager.\
\
From the apprehension leading into this course to the satisfaction upon completion, I feel that I have taken a positive step to improve myself in an area that I had doubts in. With time, I will be able to build upon the skills that have been honed during the sessions and I have no regrets about putting myself forward for the training. I felt the content was relevant, delivered in a manner which instilled confidence and has been a thoroughly positive experience.\
I thoroughly enjoyed the course and felt it gave me extensive knowledge to be able to deliver the course to a range of audiences with confiedence.\
Overall I am pleased with the delivery of the course and found Melissa to be professional and engaging. However, communication between myself and the team at AKD arranging the session for us was poor.  I was not made aware of the course structure, what I was required to provide (i.e board, feedback candidates - I was informed about this element of the course by a colleague who had set up a train the trainer session previously) and what would be provided by facilitator. Also I had to chase date confirmation and there were some issues around invoices and chasing of payments prior to delivery.\
I found the training not only useful but helpful to dispel some of the feelings of failure if a complaint is made that my involve you. I enjoyed the open discussion of real scenarios and learned how to not only view them from our perspective but also the perspective of the one making the complaint. I found the reflective nature of why, how and what it takes for people to make a complaint very informative and I will definitively be using some of the strategies identified in my current practice. \
\
\
\
where can I request more of the easy read comments leaflet?  The game scenarios were  a bit too ambiguous.  \
Very informative but felt more time needed to play the game to enhance knowledge\
The main tutor made the learning experience very interesting and she had a lot of knowledge to draw from.\
\
\
Felt the session was aimed at ensuring that LCC complaints department had enough complaints forwarded to them to please their inspectors. Depressing to find that they thought we should be recording grumbles as complaints!\
The course was good and really informative however it felt a bit rushed towards the end it could have done with an extra 30 minutes just to finish the 'game'. I thought that Judith had lots of useful information to pass on but that it could have been done separately within the course rather than chipping in from time to time.\
Really enjoyed and learnt from this training I was able to take a lot back into my service and cascade to the staff team but most importantly to the customers and their families.\
It was amusing but did not lack gravitas.\
\
\
\
\
Trainer was very engaging. Facilities were good and that tea, coffee and cakes had been provided made it a better training event.\
Overall very informative, enjoyable session. I do feel updated with process.\
\
I found the course very informative.  We could have done with some extra time.  The trainier was excellent.\
I thought the course was very good but woudl give meore time.\
\
I understand that lengthening the course limits attendance - but felt that it should be a little longer\
\
I really enjoyed this training session a potentially dull subject made interesting and relevant to my practice \
\
really enjoyed the training, and both trainers had a lot of useful information.\
\
\
Enjoyed the Course, never a dull moment, great Trainer, he kept the Course moving & interesting\
It was a useful session and I believe it should not just be limited to management. It would be more useful for front line staff on the phones and communicating by email as they are the ones who get the customers rants first hand and the customers have usually calmed down by the time they get to management in most situations.\
I thoroughly enjoyed this training and the trainer was excellent. \
\
\
\
\
It was very enjoyable 2 days that made us think and practice skills that we have but do not use on a daily basis.\
\
I was not present for the 2nd day session as I had a meeting to attend to, but going by the fist day, I was made to feel more comfortable in my surroundings as I do not usually like attending these kind of sessions. The content used for the course was very useful and was very cleverly utilized in order to capture certain strengths and skills.\
Leone was a pleasure to work with, you get a sense that she takes all comments personally and is a good judge on if a topic is worth discussing (even if it may be digressing from task) depending of if it will be beneficial or not. Leone was also very approachable and provided an open environment where all of us felt safe to express ourselves.\
I was sceptical as I thought it would be two days of being talked at. It was the complete opposite! The subject matters were relevant to my job and I could see ways of improving my way of working from this. I loved the fact it was interactive and gave food for thought. I stayed interested and switched on throughout the two days (I get distracted very quickly!). I also like the face that we have 'homework' as it keeps me thinking about the things I've learnt and changes I need to make.\
The content was good and gave a good insight into what the course was about.  This is very relevant to my role and career and has given me good focus on what I need to do in my branch.\
\
\
I really enjoyed the training and gained a lot from it. I took away useful information and insight which I can apply to my role immediately.\
I really enjoyed this course, I found it very informative and very useful it was good to find out the procedures and what happens once we have dealt with our part.\
I enjoyed the session and learnt a lot about the complaints procedure.\
I enjoyed the session and learnt a lot about the complaints procedure.\
thank you for listening to what we had to say.  It was appreciated.  Not a usual approach by management in my experience.\
A very enjoyable session during which I learnt so much.\
\
I am happy with this training. it is useful. \
\
\
Enjoyed the session & the trainer made it interesting , he presented it well & was friendly, welcoming\
I found this course so informative and enjoyable.  The speaker was confident in delivery which project a self confidence to me. Excellent course .\
Very interesting course ,delivered well and very useful to learn a lot of things.\
\
\
I would like to thank you for giving providers the opportunity to attend your course, it was very valuable.  It made me seriously think about our internal policies as a Homecare provider and what we can do to improve or mirror what is happening in LCC.  I will be contacting Akin Thomas to see if he can provide support for us nationally in our company.\
Akin was great. \
this was an excellent  course, very interesting and informative\
very well balanced and delivered well easy to understand without big words \
the session was very interactive and very well delivered. It also made you think differently about complaints.\
The trainer was enthusiastic, and involved every person on the training course. Everyone was able to voice their thoughts and opinions. The trainers enthusiasms was infectious. \
excellent course, very useful. The trainer was very inspiring \
\
\
\
\
\
Thanks for the session. A great product and some good thoughts and ideas around the questioning.\
I really enjoyed the course, the information provided and resources will help and support me. I am more positive regarding complaints.\
\
\
\
Good, clear instruction, fast pace\
\
a full day would be useful \
Would definitely consider extending the duration of the course again to allow more flexibility for discussion and scenario.\
really great course. would love to learn more. already implemented into practise some of the material \
\
\
\
Trainer facilitated what can be a tough topic extremely well.\
I found it really informative and enjoyable. i feel more confident in explaining to my staff team about the complaints procedure.\
I really loved the course \
\
Would have liked it to have been a full day, to talk more in depth and go around the game board more. June was a fantastic trainer but felt the session would have been a lot better without the leeds council officer trying to give her views and experiences.\
\
\
Enjoyed the session. Was interactive and encouraged some lively debate. The facilitator kept things moving well, was impressed by her.\
\
\
\
Excellent session - good group, trainer kept our attention with anecdotes and stories from her experience\
\
Excellent trainer\
Even though she wasn't well the trainer did extremely well\
\
\
\
The course was rushed, because the trainer had to do a full days course into a half day. I would have liked to have seen more of the scenarios which were on his team game cards. We only managed to have two cards read out to us, due to time constraints.  The trainer kept asking 'Does that make sense?', when it clearly did make sense to us. He said this far too many times.  \
Enjoyed the training. Friendly and enthusiastic trainer.\
Both trainers were very knowledgeable and provided relevant and helpful info. I learnt a lot, I would say it  would have been an excellent and valuable training event, if the trainer hadn't spoken so fast and didn't keep asking ' does that make sense?' after every sentence. \
Really enjoyed the course and learnt a lot.  Thank you Akin and Judith.\
All good!!\
I have been involved in complaints at various levels for a number of years but this course provided more information and was very useful indeed.\
\
\
The trainer was excellent he explained things in laymans terms that we could all understand  He took the time to go over things and was really helpful\
\
\
Thanks for an interesting  day. It was very useful. \
\
\
\
brilliant content and delivered very well \
\
Fabulous \
\
I really enjoyed this course and felt engaged at all times with my tutor.\
Might be better having Training days defferent forthose knowledgable in dealing with complaints\
\
This is the 3rd time I have attended this course. The course has helped me grow more each time.  Its great I can still get something from this over and over again. \
I really enjoyed it, I learnt good tips of dealing with complaints and enjoyed that the trainer often did drawings to explain what she was talking about which I find keeps the training course much more interesting rather than someone just talking at you.\
\
I thought the trainer was really good and liked the fact that there wasn't reams of handouts, but that learning was done interactively throughout the course.\
while I now have a much better idea of how I would approach and respond to a complaint, I feel that my confidence is still low\
\
Very good course\
\
I had Julia and she was fabulous, I was nervous and after this course, I felt more confident and happy to talk to the group. Julia made us all feel relaxed and was very friendly. I would love to be part of any future courses.\
Really enjoyed the course however I think it could have been slightly more in depth. perhaps more behaviour training. \
Very relaxed atmosphere. Mel was excellent at delivering the contents of the course even under unexpected circumstances such as not enough actual material (visual). I felt that I have achieved a greater sense of presentation skills and gained a lot more confidence.\
I am just awaiting the handouts to be emailed \
Good understanding of how people are feeling that make complaints and that face to face produces better results in the first instance \
I thought that the course was very informative and the tutor was really good at giving us confidence in our presenting and allowed us all to contribute.  The only thing I felt was missing as an example of a workshop being delivered as I believe this would've given us a better understanding of what the workshop should look like.  Great two days and everyone was great!  Thank you\
\
Very good, some very good ideas was given with regards to writing complaint letters \
\
Very well presented and interactive  was very useful in practical guidance on responding to complaints  excellent session\
There was some debate about the letter contents we had to write. My Manager went to the morning session, I went to the afternoon session. I am not sure if we both agreed on the right way to devise a response to a complaints letter (this will be revealed shortly). \
The workshop was excellent in spite of the venue which was not the fault of AKD.\
I enjoyed the course and found the feedback on our personalities/strengths/weaknesses very useful. I felt  out of  my comfort zone at times, which was good and helped me to learn from those times. The group was great  and everyone could speak openly and honestly, which was a credit to the trainers and the group.  The sessions were productive although some of us seemed to lose our way slightly at one point but recovered. I have picked up new skills and techniques along the way, which I will use in my every day life.\
I didn't think this was one of our better excercises and that we were quite disjointed at times. However, once everyone was back on track, it was fine.  Inviting a tenant member and Gary Jackson to the panel when presenting was very good . The feedback was honest, relevant and good to see how we should improve. \
The course was brilliant and I really enjoyed it. I think that the extra work that the course created may have been ambitious for the calibre of people attending, meaning that a lot of the delegates have heavy work loads and, in my opinion, the course may have added extra pressure. I also feel that some of the course material was a little ambitious and was not relatable (Mears Olympics 2020). \
Was never really clear on the overall objectives. I was put on the course without clear objectives and I felt this was a struggle for us all throughout. At the beginning of the course I learnt new skills however I felt as the sessions progressed this became unclear and less was learnt - people found it hard to stay on task which effected my learning. \
The session was great but the time constraints caused some slight problems.  There were people who had worked on bids previously but their content felt rushed due to the artificial timescales.  It's a difficult one to balance as you need to give people the feeling of writing a bid but can't allow much longer than the two days in reality. I really did appreciated the trainers emphasising to the group that this was an exercise, this helped keep the group on track and not beat themselves up too much when their bid wasn't 'perfect'.\
Over all the whole course was very good and I enjoyed it.\
very professional and informative \
I enjoyed the course, I found that the interaction with others was great, just a shame that people where just sent on the course and felt deflated that they were on the course. \
Yearly follow up training will be helpful to everyone particularly we the service providers. Email resources to the participants will be a good idea to encourage further knowledge.\
Very informative and learnt alot and will help with dealing with complaints and grumbles in the future\
\
\
This form doesn't really fir what Boot camp is about.  It was a good opportunity for us all to get together but not enough time! I really liked the sessions where we worked to come up with a learning solution - think we should develop the ideas we came up with. I liked Bola's presentation - really engaging and thought provoking.  I thought the room wasn't really big enough and having to gatecrash a wedding to get coffee was not good.  Lunch was tasty but they ran out of food. I really liked Ralph's input from the day . I liked the AKD branding  We didn't have objectives to meet so didn't score that. We need to make sure that we follow through with the work we did on process  I have some other thoughts too - general ideas but will put them in an email! \
\
Great facilitation and expertise shared. A fun, challenging but inspiring day! Thank you so much\
It would be great if a general overview of what was discussed at the Bootcamp could be collated and circulated. Ie minutes, but not so formal. This will keep everyone accountable to what we discussed and agreed, plus keep people refreshed and the momentum going. \
Great experience and a lot to take home\
Great experience. I really enjoyed being there. Slightly disappointed about the venue, in regards to lunch and drink setup, but nothing that will take from the excellent teambuilding. Thank you AKD\
\
\
Bootcamp is always great, it provides associates with the opportunity to share their ideas, experienced and best practice.   It's also a great way to getting insights into what is going on within the company. \
Very helpful in my understanding of the concepts behind the process and how they should be applied in real world situations\
Well delivered training session\
this was an excellent half day training/information session given by a very well informed, engaging trainer.\
\
I found the course really interesting and very well delivered by both Akim and the areas where Tina delivered her input - I  would have liked in a less condensed format however, understandably this was put into a half day sessions for good reasons that were explained.  The only mention I feel worth making is i am still awaiting the information promised on the course to be emailed out to me, as it is nearly two weeks now and if we had a complaint (thankfully we haven't) it would be really good to have this resource available to refer to and act upon, hence the three stars on Quality if training materiels\
I enjoyed the course\
\
\
\
\
\
I thought the beginning of the course was a bit hard to follow as the trainer was dipping in and out of things but as it went on and we were discussing the case studies it was interesting. The board game was a nice idea bit there wasn't really any point to the game  Interesting course and gave me the overview that i needed \
I feel like it would have been beneficial to have a full days training rather than 3 hours. I preferred learning through case studies which made you think. \
\
The course was very informative and interesting! it was very thought-provoking.\
\
\
Really interesting course. Would definitely recommend anyone working in Leeds in the Adult Social Care Sector to complete this.\
\
I feel that the training would have been better done over a full day rather than in a few hours as there was a lot of information to take in and felt it was a little rushed.\
Unfortunately there was no sound when listening to the clips of film being shown which would have enhanced the experience (but thats technology)\
\
\
\
Excellent course and presentation\
The scenarios presented were very good as it made us aware that things are not always what they seem at first sight\
\
\
I really enjoyed the course as it gave real life scenario's that we deal with on a day to day basis.  I have learnt that i must work along side other agencies and always see the bigger picture.\
Thoroughly enjoyed the course material and how it was delivered, held my attention through out the course, very informative information given when asked any questions. has and will make me help me think about complaint in positive way. Thank you  \
\
Some additional hand outs to takeaway would have been useful - particularly some of the cards used for definitions. Mel was a great trainer - very knowledgeable and engaging.  I would have preferred a little more structure the course although I can see that it was perhaps an advantage to allow the conversations of the group lead the session. \
Excellent training\
Very interesting- engaging\
excellent\
was very active and kept you interested \
\
Thoroughly enjoyed the course. Gave plenty of opportunity for interaction and knowledge sharing. All managers should attend so as sharing of good practice and opinions can be rolled out to all staff  at differing levels and services.\
\
Very informative and interesting too. Well presented - Mel excellent facilitator.  Thank you.\
Excellent input by the trainer. \
Very informative course\
I found the whole course to be very 'samey',  I didn't find the format very helpful in so much as it was very opinionated and there was literally nothing to take away from the course for future reference. The course was not at all what I expected it to be, which is not your fault, I thought it would be much more WHG centred in what our procedures are regarding safeguarding. I also didn't think the trainer controlled the session very well, she was often talked over and spent a great deal of time at the beginning talking about herself.\
\
\
\
Interesting and enlightening well worth attending.\
\
Would have appreciated more time with Akin as I got the feeling there was lots more to say.  I think it would have been helpful if more of the managers from children's services had been in attendance as this would have sparked more discussion\
The training was a practical look at how to deal with day to day situations which was relevant for myself and my team\
Very engaging training, kept the course content relevant and appropriate to meet the needs of the group.\
\
the course was too short to cover all questions and debates. \
The course was condensed into a half day course, which was very informative and well delivered. As a new worker to leeds it gave me a good grounding of Local processess and expectations. \
\
\
very well run course that involved participating and group work \
Mel was an excellent trainer who engaged with all participants and made the session interesting and interactive.\
I and many other delegates were not familiar with twitter,  I needed more practical time , to post and understand.  I still worry that I post incorrectly.  Making a video is probably something I am ever going to be asked to do as it is out of my skills.  More practical time in the course would have helped\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Really enjoyed this training very informative and glad it was a chance to talk through case studies and i gained more knowledge of the changes made from last time i did the training\
As with any programme elements of the planned shcedule were skipped, i did find this frustrating. It maybe helpful to feedback to the group which elements and why are going to be skipped.\
Leone & Melissa did a fantastic job of engaging the group and keeping everyone engaged.  Fun learning experience :)\
\
Would have benefited from more hands on experience of hootsuite. \
Yes and no. I think we could have benefited with more advice on what to say rather than how to do it. But that's probably as I have some knowledge of Hootsuite, Twitter and Facebook.  Both trainers were easy to talk to and I enjoyed the course overall.\
I really enjoyed the training. It wasn't as intimidating as I expected it to be. It gave me greater clarity of the media side of things and more confidence to use the different methods. \
All the candidates on the course  seemed to lose track of what was expected. However,  when got back on track, we dealt with the task at hand. The guest speaker was fabulous, inspirational and put the task and helped to make the project real.  Overall, the course was good, we made it harder than it actually was. Maybe a change of approach to it or greater clarity would help or, having the correct people on the course, who knew why they were there.\
Well deliveredv& overall a really good course and thoroughly enjoyed the role play. \
I really appreciated Akin's knowledge and experience of social care complaints that gave an added depth and perspective to the training that is pertinent to my area of work. Good also to have the opportunity to spend time with colleagues from Chiltern and VW - gave an added dimension to the training with lots of similar themes and experiences but with the bonus of viewing the whole customer experience from very different 'product' point of view.\
My main reasons for not rating the course particularly highly are purely down to the fact that I don't feel that I've gained many new skills or knowledge.   Having a guest on the second day of the course was a real positive and boosted the atmosphere and added an element of reality to the scenario - which really helped people.  I just think that perhaps this course is not challenging enough for me based on the role that I'm in.  I do think that Leone is a great trainer though!\
Has given me more than enough to take away and solve tactical problems and also to shape strategy....\
\
Would be better if we didn't have to travel so far so less time out of the business. I feel now that we have gelled quite well as a team and look to each other to support on the journey. I have a better understanding of the point of the course now.\
I feel unclear on what the objectives were for this particular session. I can see a bigger picture however didnt feel I was developing any news skills or knowledge. I feel the group requires clarification on expectations going forward (which I may have missed on Thursdays session).\
\
\
\
Too far to travel to Rotherham from my location. \
I felt that the exercise was far too long and by the end of it we didn't seem to achieve any of the goals set out at the beginning of the day. One of the briefings was also not accurate - we were told to re-write the menu and then criticized that we all focused on the menu when presenting back.  The setting and materials for the day were OK but I didn't feel like I gained anything  from the session other than developing internal relationships with colleagues. (Sorry!)\
Course did not meet any of the objectives. Trainer needed to give more specific direction or at least centre check on how each group were approaching the exercises. As not doing so meant we spent the whole day talking about restaurant menus rather than customer service, staff motivation etc, etc. Handouts - the menus as handouts adversely change our group ideas of requirements of exercise. Trainer did not give any time for delegates to have time to think alone - all group works, which can block out ideas, thoughts of those who need time alone for creative thinking, problem solving. Training needs to be balanced between individual and group activities. \
I found this particular session a very long winded way of delivering a very easy message.\
The course was good and started off well but I felt it lost its impact later on in the day.\
Felt the training day covered aspects of the course I personally was already comfortable with it didnt stretch me out of my comfort zone as much as previoslusly. Obtained further knowledge in relation to leadership skills and how people manage individually. \
\
\
Really useful advice \
\
\
Really enjoyable. It's a nice and useful way to begin at the firm, rather than just being thrown it at the deep end.\
Very engaging presenter and had some very interesting discussions\
\
\
Just needed more time  felt so rushed in one day just getting into to it and it had to conclude\
very good enjoyed it\
Thouroughly enjoyed it gave me a new insight to looking at complaints and how we work with each other. \
I found this course very informative and a really useful reminder of what we should be doing when investigating complaints. It was also reassuring to know that those of us on the on the course all have the same approach to complaints and it was also a really timely reminder about the reasons why we investigate complaintsin relation to the individual member.\
My objectives were to learn more about unconscious bias and whilst this was met to an extent in that I did learn a little more I was expecting the whole three hours to be unconscious bias. This may have been an internal communication error I'm not sure.   I think that your material is great but we do already deliver similar underpinning material in house which is extremely well received by delegates.  I loved the game as a concept. \
Overall the course is very good. My main objective was the unconscious bias and how to overcome this/advise and make the business aware or to be able to challenge and educate the business a bit more about it. Whilst the course is very good with covering a lot it didn't meet my personal requirements. \
I thought the content of the course will be very useful in my role and it made me think of the best way of approaching an investigation \
I was lead to believe that the course was to deal with the unconscious bias and yet it covered too wider spectrum leaving little time to do detail over unconscious bias.\
\
Felt that the Unconscious bias element was only scratched on \
This workshop would be useful for inexperienced new Regional Officers and new inexperienced managers. Experienced RO and SRO should know what a good investigation looks like/is structured albeit that their day to day work relates to employment issues rather than investigating complaints. \
good group discussions\
However, although I have rated this high, the course gives me the impression that I will be responsible for investigating/writing a response to complaints - I do not think that is correct? I thought the course was focusing on preventing a complaint becoming formal?\
Parts of the morning session were not necessary for those who had attended the Managing Expectations Course.  The tools present were very good and I will use them.\
\
I felt 2 days was too long - 1 day would be sufficient as there was a lot of overlap with training received approx. 2-3 years ago - same trainer some new tools for route cause analysis worked through - helpful not clear how the RCN as a whole is going to move forward with detailed complaint investigations so not sure how necessary some of the content would be for 'all' OMs, RDs or SLOs to undertake\
Very good refresher to the previous complaints training I have done with the RCN\
excellent course delivered by an excellent facilitator\
The day was interesting and informative and will use some of the techniques when I am asked to investigate a complaint.\
I wonder whether the course could have been condensed into one day if there had been some pre-reading and the theory taught in tandem with the application of the case study\
\
I felt some parts were a little drawn out and some participants needed to be cut a short when taking the group discussions/feedback etc... off course. A few parts were missing from our lego set for a specific activity. Many of the areas I have covered in other training courses but these would definitely be more useful/relevant for others.\
I thoroughly enjoyed the course and thought it was delivered extremely well, I do however think that some more information could have been given beforehand on what the course was, and what it's outcomes would be.  This is only a small point but I think will help the next round of inductees into the programme.\
An excellent two days training course. The tasks allowed people to open up with each other, pushing their own limits to improve themselves in an environment that everyone felt comfortable.   \
The aim for the whole course (7-days) was explained, but I do not know what the specific aim and its objectives were for these 2-days.  I particularly enjoyed the quiet, imaginative, self-reflective part of the exercises.  The  trainer was excellent in creating a trusting  environment in which to explore self.   The lego exercise was a fab opener! II liked that no aims were explained and we just went straight into exercise. The pre-course psychometric self-assessment was very useful; it helped me to understand my strengths and preferences and the importance of focusing on these. Also, the trainer referred to them during exercises.  I also loved the 'my first day in captivity' exercise -in particular the creative and imaginative preparation more than the delivery.  I found beliefs/values exercise were not applied to activities - but this will probably be covered later in the course.  Although the Red Thread group presentation exercise was very useful for colleagues to work together, I do not think that any of the presentations could be delivered to demonstrate what Red Thread, which is a shame because I was looking for a more professional, engaging way of delivering RT.  I found the exercise of looking at another's 'view of the world' a bit basic and lengthy.  Would have preferred a quick brainstorm and then actually working on different pitches to different target audiences. Also found 'TED' video too long.\
\
The course will not suite everyone. It would have been nice to know what the course was about before I attended and what Mears expected me to gain from it. I have gained some skills which will make me feel more confident representing Mears to new audiences.\
Although unsure on \
I have suggested  the course be open to the operational teams \
The course content was very interesting and I liked the level of interactivity. My only criticism would be although the external trainer was professional and polite, there were times where she struggled to bring the class back in when conversations were flowing.\
\
Insightful and engaging training session.\
\
June presented the course really well. As in my role I currently deal with customer complaints and have done in previous role, I feel I have a good understanding how to handle/ respond to customer complaints well. As a result of this, haven\'82\'c4\'f4t picked up anything new.  I have gained knowledge when responding; focus should be more on individual\'82\'c4\'f4s emotions than facts. I also learnt different types of feeling people experience when complaining and when not complaining but the feeling afterwards.  \
The course was really useful and had lots of interesting ways of looking at complaints. It addressed ideas about complaints that I hadn't thought about and made me challenge the way I have handled and would handle complaints. \
\
I feel that it would have been beneficial to have had a handout to take away from the training, covering what we had been discussing.\
\
Jenny is clearly a highly experienced trainer and made the day that I attended enjoyable as well as a very valuable learning opportunityu.  I have facilitated group learing previously but really enjoyed the fresh insight in how people learn best.  This is the reason that in response to new skills and knowledge, the score was not higher, as it was not all new material to me.\
\
The values and standards towards which we should strive for are not available.  There are no standard answers for the questions which should set the values and standards for the Organisation. Therefore, there is a risk of the sessions being facilitated to differing standards.\
Sorry - the old browser we use here seems to block a few of the response sections. \
\
The actual content and materials was not vitally important as discussions were held around specific areas that related to the training and had specific outcomes relevant to discussion.  \
\
It was obvious that Akin brought a lot of experience to his training presentation, it was nice not to sat watching a power point presentation all day.\
I think the course would be really useful if the company made major changes to our complaints policy/procedure. A lot of what was taught was very interesting and promising but we're limited as to what we can implement at local level due to the constraints of the current 3 stage procedure. I'd highly recommend it to more senior management. I think a wider range of activities would have been useful (if the course had been a full day there would have been more time for interactive learning through different types of activities). Very useful over all, I learned a lot. \
Good course which didn't just concentrate on the complaints process  but involved a lot of discussions and thought processes. \
The course was very much geared towards the Health Sector which was not made clear in the details that were provided beforehand.  The continual reference to NHS examples meant that it was difficult to engage with the trainer as a lot of what was being discussed was not relevant to me.    The majority of the 2 days were spent sitting down at tables and this obviously affected the energy levels in the room.   The quality of the course materials needs improvement, it was very difficult to navigate and there were a number of spelling and grammatical errors. \
Atkin made a very dry topic very interesting and certainly made you think about how to confidently approach peoples dissatisfaction in order to obtain the best possible outcomes and resolution.\
useful handbook however page numbering made it difficult to find the correct page. venue good\
The handouts in the folder were excellent but the page numbers were not numbered consecutively so difficult to find which section or page we were working on.\
The course allowed me to look at complaints from a different perspective\
\
effective and enthusiastic way of looking at this process \
Really enjoyed the training and how it challenged how i originally felt and what i thougt i  knew about the area.\
The training was really good and i learn't a lot. Especially about how the person that makes the complaint feels, and what their expectations may be. It's helped me to reflect on my own practice regarding complaints and has given me knowledge to help improve the way our service responds to and follow up on complaints. \
\
\
\
Excellent training and trainer made it enjoyable and engaging. Learnt a lot that I can take back to the team. \
Very good training enabled a different way of thinking and challenging (positively) the status quo of the organsiations approach to complaints/feedback.\
\
\
The trainer was very knowledgeable, her presentation was good and she was skilled at generating discussion.  However,  One minor area for improvement would be timekeeping.  Sometimes the discussion was allowed to run on for too long and focus too much on specific experiences which meant that some elements of the training had to be rushed and even missed.\
I really enjoyed the course.  received a huge amount of information in such a short time. the way it was taught enable me to retain the information\
Stated objectives achieved\
Akin was one of the best trainer's I have ever come across.  Engaging!! Absolutely spot on.\
A training tool was used to undertake a quiz but seemed to limited relevance to the overall course discussion\
\
I found the course very useful.  The trainer was excellent - the delivery was pitched at the right level and there was a good combination of new information and discussion.  \
The idea of the game is good but I personally feel it wouldn't work within our team. It would take too long- even if you has smaller teams. Most of the cards you sit and discuss, so it would need to be tailored to us, and even then you could play the game without the board. It would work best as part of a training day not as a quick game during opening hours. \
A good training session delivered by a good trainer\
The style and approach of the trainer made the course a fun and enjoyable way of learning. The facilitative style of training enabled the participants, most of whom knew each other, to be introspective in terms of recognising their teaching and learning styles, but also extrospective in terms of how they would engage participants in LNWH NHS Trust customer care training.\
The training and content was very useful and informative  also very useful for the future changes  we are aiming to make changes for the future in regards to complaints and gaining feedback\
\
I enjoyed the theory and practice. A more comprehensive take home manual of how the game and scouring system could be managed would be useful. Stock answers expected on certain topics for early stage facilitation would also be appreciated. \
Unfortunately our learning map and accompanying materials including a Trust policy for customer care were not ready in time for our training course\
The course was good and learnt more about complaints in general. It was more focused towards independent providers and their own complaints procedures, which was fine and I learnt from this.\
I immediately recommended this course to others. Akin is very passionate and knowledgeable-he has turned a very dry and rather dull subject into something really worth learning more about. The hand outs were good-really pleased to see something in user friendly format. Thank you\
I found this course really helpful and interesting. It made me think  differently about the complaints and the way they are approached and handled\
The trainer is the best trainer I have ever been trained by. His way of training is great, never a dull moment and a way in which you are included in ever aspect of the course.  \
The trainer did well. She maintained interest and demonstrated good knowledge. Managed the situation when technology failed. Venue good.\
I was quite ignorant about this piece of legislation before the course. The day provided a good basic guide to the Act and the possible implications for Complaint Investigations.\
I was impressed by the trainer's knowledge of the subject and ability to engage with the class, encouraging and open to comments from students.  I felt at the end much more aware of the legislation, its implications for practice,  and how it is relevant to complaints.\
The only observation I would make about the training and the way it could be fine tuned is to further prioritise  the amount of information delivered  during the session.\
very well presented through out \
I found the course very interesting and made me more aware of the complaint procedures and how to deal more affectively \
\
Excellent training, Akin was so interesting to listen too and made the course fun, relaxing and inspiring. i felt confident to speak up.  Thank you Akin.\
\
\
\
I did like the workbooks we had previously as it was useful to refer to however I also see the value in writing down what you felt was important and what you would use going forward.\
Useful to get a different perspective on complaints, the trainer was engaging and honest! \
\
\
THE COURSE WAS VERY INFORMATIVE AND WELL PRESENTED, I T HELD MY ATTENTION FROM START TO THE FINISH. DEFINETLY KNOWLWDGE I CAN TAKE BACK AND USE WITHIN THE ORGANISATION.\
Very good trainer - the course was a condensed course which brought out the key requirement \
\
\
Very interesting makes you think. \
Very interesting makes you think. \
Really enjoyed the course. Akin made it interesting and helped me to see complaints in a positive way! Also interesting to know we can contact Leeds City council for advice .\
\
I do not think this training will be practical for my department. I also did not feel the game was competitive enough as all groups earned all points if they answered the questions\
The course was good in that it focused on real life examples of complaints and how we could deal with those. However I did want to find out more about the Leeds complaints policy and changes in legislation / processes which were covered in the last 5 minutes. The course ran over so unfortunately I had to leave at the appointed finishing time so this may have been expanded upon after I left.\
For us time is an issue but there are ways we can get around that. \
Although the content of the course was good, and the game idea made it fun, it's not the most practical for our teams due to time constraints.\
\
The training we recieved was fun, it made you think about all the different scenarios you could expect in a customer facing enviroment. The only issue would be how we would implement this into a working day, whether it be scaled down version using just the cards and using the board at a different time or during a closedown. I like the general idea though. \
\
\
The content of the course mix of candidates attended were all helpful to my role and position. \
\
Thought June was excellent - warm, friendly and knew her topic!  If anything the course needed to be longer as we were quite rushed at the end.\
Thoroughly enjoyable course with plenty of interaction.\
\
Enjoyed the course and able to associate the content with own work situation\
\
\
Execellent course will use this in my job role It looked at complaints in a diffrent light  Really enjoyed the course, it was delieverd in excellent way really captured your attention\
\
\
Very enjoyable and informative\
We have only eveer dealt with minor complaints that have been resoloved quickly , Apart from Safeguarding if course. THis course was interesting and informative and delivered in a manner that will motivate staff. Plus it has made myself more aware of the policies and Procedures , plus who to contact. \
\
I thought the course was really interesting, and was really useful to my role. The trainer was excellent and made it interesting. I would have liked to cover more about dealing with aggressive complaints and how to deal with people who are more aggressive but I appreciate that would probably have to be another course. But overall it was brilliant and gave me a new perspective of complaints and how to look at them and deal with them and how to deal with staff when we have complaints. \
I was that enthralled with the course I could of stayed all day. The time went by so quickly. I engaged with the information and group work and enjoyed every minute of it.\
\
Very informative and pleasant  trainer and training\
\
\
\
\
Excellent presentation \
Alison was really focused on what we needed to achieve and we managed to get through a lot as well as have a good level of discussion.\
\
Really enjoyed the course. It was very informative & interesting. Trainer was excellent at getting the point across.\
Very well presented & very knowledgeble\
\
Brilliant course with a dynamic and inspiring trainer.  I am pleased to see that the training is to be deilviered to care staff as I feel it will benefit them massively.   The only point was that the room was quite small!\
\
I found the course informative and was presented in a way that made me change the way I think around complaints. I felt the course was presented in an outstanding way and was very thought provoking for me and they way I can handle complaints in future.\
\
Found the course very useful. We have taken away new ideas back to our working environment. \
I really enjoyed the course, really interesting learnt a lot it answered all my question .\
All staff and managers would benefit from this training  \
good presentation / delivery \
I attended the course so that I would have a better understanding of the complaints procedure and would be able to deal with complaints with confidence. \
Excellent course which will help me a lot as I am new to complaints and the NHS.   Trainer was friendly, knowledgeable and communicated well which helped as the projector failed to work properly, we did not miss it.  The flip charts and course booklet made up for it.  \
I think the train the trainer day was facilitated excellently. It would have been useful to go through the course from beginning to end to get a rough flow, but understand time limitations restrict that. \
Unfortunately the projector did not work and the booklets arrived late\
\
An excellent interactive and challenging course as I would expect from AKD.   Brilliant trainer thank you. \
\
The delivery of the course was very good, however alot of pressure created for the learners due to short time frame to prepare to deliver a session to the group as part of the learning experience which was assessed. This caused a lot of undue stress and worry for the group.  Melissa did her best to put the group at ease but everyone feed back how uncomforatble it was as they did not have enough knowlegde on the subject matter to deliver an equal yours session for assessment in such a short space of time.  \
relaxed atmosphere to put you at ease, as this was completely out of my comfort zone! enjoyable and Melissa is great at what she does.\
\
Really good interactive course. \
Very interactive training session, great trainer. \
\
\
\
Would like to know more about how a business can tackle problems of diversity in recruitment\
\
\
\
I had a great time on this course, I felt really involved in the whole thing and didn't loose my attention throughout. I have come away feeling reinforced in what I am doing and has helped me refocus and be more kind and friendly in my responses.  Thank you June, you were wonderful and a great asset to the AKD team\
Confidently and competently delivered\
\
its was good a few new things, but would have liked to see more about how to write a good letter. more of how to deal with those unreasonable guests. \
\
\
\
It felt like a discussion, as opposed to training.   I was hoping to have learnt something at the end of the 3/4 hours.   The trainer was friendly, but there were no course / training materials. \
Excellent concept for training and skilled, knowledgeable trainer. The board game element produced the biggest engagement and discussion - if we were to use this again, more time spent on the Board game would be great.\
Thank you very much to Melissa - she was brilliant.\
The course was great and a real eye opener.  It may have been handy to have a simple handout to take away from the course\
\
\
Handouts would have been good to summarise what was discussed\
Well run course very informative.\
\
Enjoyable and thought provoking session\
I really enjoyed this morning's story telling session with Simon - it was very well structured and definitely got us thinking. The balance of pre-reading, talking/guidance and interaction was spot-on and I've been left with some useful tips to take away and some things for us to think about as a team. I think we would all really benefit from a follow up session in a couple of months.  One of the best training sessions I have participated in - thank you.\
Excellent. Especially appreciated efforts made to bring along those with little social media knowledge.\
The main issue will be how quickly as an organisation there exists a willingness at a senior level to look into developing this agenda, but the training itself could not be faulted and consisted of a good mixture of information and active participation of delegates.\
Enjoyable 2 days  -  particularly from a 'dinosaur' who didn't know what a # was and I wasn't made to feel a complete idiot. I'm now better informed and see it as another media for receiving issues.  With the instructions we already use in the Team and the fact all our telephone calls are recorded and available as transcripts to complainants should they request, we are guarded in what we say and promise  - so with Karen's guidance ought to be able to operate professionally and safely if WCC agree to take forward.  Personally, I will need to skill up and become familiar with the different systems/screens and what buttons to press or 'not' before I could use/respond to the public with any degree of confidence - some Team Colleagues already use social media  and are usually happy to share knowledge.   Thanks for your time.   Happy Christmas    Barb.\
I think this was an excellent course - both Akin and Leona were very captivating in their enthusiasm and knowledge. The ability to link the course content to our specific user area was great and ensured that the learning had practical transference for once we are back in the office. Good use of examples and case study information. I think the case study could probably do with a slight tweak to nudge attendees on how to do the planning as we got a bit too embroiled in the planning rather than doing. \
Excellent and thought provoking course, very interesting with lots of diverse work around the positives of Social Media and how it can benefit us in CRT and WCC.  One down side to the training was the amount of input from KS and the strategic approach needed to implement this, this is something that the majority of officers in CRT would not be involved in.  This information would have been best discussed else where, I felt this detracted from the course a little.  Overall though excellent\
Room was somewhat small and long which made some of the participation activities difficult but other than that good\
Cheryl carried out our training for 14001 appreciation and our 45001 appreciation was done by Albert. Both trainers provided excellent sessions. They were very descriptive and both trainers were extremely knowledgeable of the standards - even being able to recite word for word.  Very good courses and would definitely recommend.\
Again, was very informative with knowledge and utilising the manual, however, we didn't use our folders at all through the course. And I felt like it would of been god to complete more practical activities in group scenarios, so that we can all get a good feel of what is expected of us. \
\
I would personally like to have a greater knowledge of the various sections within the ISO9000 quality manual so that I can link more effectively the relevant section(s) to the area that I am auditing.\
\
Excellent all round\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
All I can say is your trainer was exceptional, and made the course enjoyable. And definitely knew his stuff \
\
\
Pre-course information could do with also being provided in an electronic format to make it more accessible and easier to provide copies of the information at the course\
\
\
\
Trainer was very knowledgeable, and covered all areas we are likely to meet in our auditing at work.\
\
\
The training room was sub-optimal\
\
\
It was a confusing process to get confirmation of the invoice and hotel booking confirmed in a for me logical manner. I would prefer to get a formal comfimation for both the course and the hotel booking (evidence fro the actual hotel that is was booked and already paid) Further it took a long time because we as a foreing company shoudl not pay VAT - however this was discussed for a while.  \
Extremely knowledgeable trainer & very useful course.\
Trainer was brilliant, very knowledgeable and friendly.   \
Venue is old and tired, food was unimaginative poor quality and not very hot. the venue was also very cold.\
Venue is old and tired, food was unimaginative poor quality and not very hot. the venue was also very cold.\
The training gave good overview on the coming changes of the standard.\
The facilities were let down by cold rooms and poor quality food\
\
The conference room was good, but the overhead projector picture quality was not great at all, the temperature in the conference room was comparable, but the rest of the hotel was freezing, the rooms were very tired, lunch was OK, but the experience in the  restaurant needs to be experienced, the menu is very bland, but a sitting of two courses takes around one hour 50 mins, the services is slow and there are very limited experienced staff, the morning breakfast is OK, but very little staff and to serve.     \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
far too many handouts outside of the coursework\
\
Excellent course from start to finish providing the delegates with a range of superb learning styles/techniques. The standard of delivery and the trainer's subject knowledge was highly commendable and very impressive, alongside the quality of the course content and materials. Our Trainer, Cheryl Savage, was so supportive throughout the week, and the best trainer I have ever had the pleasure of working alongside. I would highly recommend both the course and the trainer to others.\
The Trainer Cheryl Savage was superb.\
\
\
Received a blank email with the joining attachments on initially but then soon after received a completed email.\
\
Facilities were excellent overall, the only issue was the lack of parking facilities.\
\
\
\
Still some grammatical errors in the course material.\
I was the least experienced attendee, the course trainer provided guidance and helped when I was doubting myself .  The advise and instructions given by the trainer grew my confidence throughout the training course in preparation for the exam\
\
\
\
\
Our company works to BRC rather than ISO 9001 and Keith tailored the course to still look at ISO 9001 but focus on more of the process of auditing to provide more of a benefit to us.  Very knowledgeable and super course! \
I know this is totally out of your control, but the location of the course was totally unsuitable with it being in close proximity to my workplace. This often led to me being distracted and getting involved with workplace issues while trying to concentrate on the course.\
Marek made what can be a dry subject interesting, which is a great achievement\
I would like to say how much I enjoyed and gained this course. The facilities and materials were very good, however I would like to give a special mention to the Course trainer who made the whole day a very enjoyable experience\
\
N/A\
This was an excellent course which, while very intense and a lot of work, was very fulfilling and enjoyable. I feel that I have learned a great deal developed my way of thinking. The trainer was very supportive and prepared the group well for all activities.  \
It would have been good if the course material could have been sent out prior to the start of the course\
Booking of the course was a major concern as we had booked the ISO 13485 IRCA certified only to be told 7 days prior to course commencement that this was not in fact IRCA certified hence the lower score in summary.  The course itself was intense, however I gained a wealth of knowledge that I can take with me as I continue my career\
\
The catering facilities were excellent in terms of food provided. Only suggestion would be to not start with sandwiches, because my first thought was 'Oh no, I don't hope we'll be getting sandwiches all week!'. Either way, the soup was a nice touch and the subsequent lunches were a pleasant surprise.\
I have stayed at Cranage Hall many times and it is usually good.  This time the room was far too hot and no way of turning the radiator off.  The food was below average, especially the breakfast.  The staff were all very nice!\
Hi the course material had not been QA'd properly and contained references to other standards and had missing sections. Once this is corrected I would like a fresh copy? Hotel food was average at best especially breakfast. Room ok, swimming pool good and staff pleasant. \
\
\
Lots of correspondence to/fro on invoice provision was very frustrating. Got conflicting advice (yes invoice could be provided upfront then no it couldn\'82\'c4\'f4t) Sunny managed to help and did apologise for the mess but it has discouraged me slightly from further bookings. \
\
Materials provided were clear etc - content would comment as above \
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very well run course, trainer was very knowledgeable and pitched the course well\
\
\
\
\
I attended the recent Environmental lead Auditor course at the Westerwood in Cumbernauld, Glasgow.  I'm sure there's been plenty of dialogue about this course so I'll keep it brief. Like all of us, I'm a busy person and ring-fenced Sunday afternoon & evening to take my time and read through the standard in preparation for the course. It's been well documented, but when I arrived, despite having printed booking references and showing the course was live on the LRQA, I was told the course had been cancelled.  In addition, one candidate had already returned home.  I was going to drive home (4.5 hours) but due to safety reasons I elected to pay for my own nights stay and travel home in the morning.  By coincidence, I was passing the reception later that day and was told the LRQA Instructor had arrived, but the course was still cancelled.  I asked if my details could be passed to the instructor, and I gathered she did the same, but no messages were passed.  This theme was replicated throughout the week.  Again by chance, I was leaving the hotel on Monday morning and the receptionist caught my eye and I was informed the course is back on now.  My major issue with all of this is that I felt behind for the whole week due to the amount of homework.  I didn't get a chance to read and understand the standard until Weds night.    This definitely had a negative impact on my understanding and quality of the course\
Course trainer was excellent, extremely knowledgeable and very flexible to the needs of the trainee.\
\
Facilities were exceptional. The food over the five days was amazing and unexpected based on previous experiences. The break out room facilities were ideal and the overall environment did not distract me at any point during the whole training period. I would definitely return to this location for further courses.\
\
\
The course was very professionally executed from booking, delivery, support, venue and materials. I would also like to thank the catering arrangements - good variety and selection of quality food and drinks (it makes a difference)! - Thanks to everyone involved.\
\
There were missing some important slides\
Kevin is truly passionate about what he does and certainly has great experience which helps make the course relevant with real life examples.   The facilities were great and the food was fab ( better than any other training I've attended) it was lovely to see a range of foods with healthy options. Good choice of drinks/ snacks etc.   Reception were always polite/ professional and helpful. Two ladies from customer care came down to see how it all went at the end of the course which was a great touch for personal service.   As stated above I felt the Thursday was particularly heavy in terms of brain overload, the audit practise required complex reading and then we needed to revise that evening. However I don't feel there is a better day to complete this as you need to complete the learning first. Just may be useful for you know how it felt as a participant.   Only other point would be the buzzer at the barrier is very hard to hear reception , otherwise all brilliant!   Thank you to all involved \
I was very pleased with the trainer, course and facilities. All worked really well and I would recommend this course to my colleagues. \
Everyone I met at the facility was very polite and pleasant. The instructor was very knowledgeable. Please let the food staff know they did a good job and the food was very tasty and lunch appropriate.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The trainer made the course very interactive, informative and qualitative. I am very happy with the delivery of the course and I learnt a lot. \
Brian was great at breaking the material into manageable chunks and also ensured everyone had an understanding of the material before moving on. I enjoyed the mixture of powerpoint and group learning.\
\
\
Excellent course. Well explained by Brian.m\
Very well run course. Great knowledge and delivery from Brian. \
\
\
some material di d appear to be a little unconnected with the course folder sections\
Can i especially compliment the superb care from catering team? My colleague has a nut allergy and I am Diary intolerant. The level of care and attention we received was fantastic. \
\
The most interesting manual with a lot of detail information had to be returned at the end of the training. It seems it would have cost on top. I find that a bit strange.\
\
I found the course very useful and the trainer, Olivier was very knowledgeable. I think the course could benefit from having video examples of a 'good' audit. \
I was surprised at the lack of intelligence of some people on the course - of people that supposedly did this for a job! I think it downgraded the course slightly. If it had been a qualification with a proper test at the end, these people wouldn't have passed!\
\
Brian was very approachable and supportive trainer, taking on board the wide variety of experience in the room and accommodating. I really welcomed the review exercises as that (I hope will support a good pass) but overall felt like there was a good balance from the overall course and learning experience. \
there was no pre course reading which would have helped those who have no knowledge of QMS \
The trainer really made the experience fun and was very informative. The issue of moving premises at the beginning, although it was not the trainer's fault,  was very frustrating (which is my only negative comment).\
Ironic as a feedback form mentioning distance from toilets was mentioned as humorous in the class.  So here's mine.  I had currently have a hip injury which made climbing stairs very difficult.  I was shown to a route where I could access a lift and some toilets, these were quite a way away from the room.  The breaks had all been condensed so 5 attendees could finish at 2pm.  This added to the pressure to take a break and use the facilities as well, and get back to class.  I really would worry for the suitability of the venue for toilet facilities for someone with a disability.  When I asked if there were ones closer that I could use, the reception within the training environment was quite dismissive, hidden disabilities can come in all forms (i'm hoping mine is temporary) and just offered the alternative with lift access. \
\
Brian was extremely helpful and approachable. The facilities of the venue were brilliant. \
\
\
OLIVIER WAS FANTASTIC!!!!   For me, he managed to turn what could have been a slightly daunting and uninteresting course into something very educational and enjoyable.   He clearly has loads of experience and was able to pitch the contents in a way that kept us all engaged and focused.   The trouble is he was so good that I wouldn't want anyone else training me if I was to book another course in the future (like Lead Auditor for example)!  Anyway please pass on my thanks and gratitude to Olivier. \
Olivier was a brilliant tutor and kept us all interested and focused. \
\
Thoroughly enjoyed this course, feel more confident going forward with auditing now.\
I found this course particularly beneficial.  Due to the samll number of delegates (7) I believe the interaction and discussions made the content easier for me to absorb, rather than having to stand up as an individual in a large group and 'present' or write/draw on a board the answers from the exercises.  All in all this course , for me, was ideal, presented with plenty of background practical knowledge and a friendly atmosphere that held my interest from begining to end.\
Useful pre-course learning pack which provided me with some fundamental information on the standard.  Excellent two day course. I would highly recommend this training to any colleagues who will be conducting internal audits on our OHS management system.\
A really enjoyable course with a trainer with great experience and it showed .  Good pace and all questions answered. It was delivered professionally and Albert made it fun.  Thank you\
Great location, easy to get to, made us very welcome, excellant facility, clean and tidy. Course was an eye opener, very good \
\
\
\
Fantastic Course, I was surprised at how comfortable we were throughout the training days. Being able to relax through the course and the practical delivery style made it enjoyable and very beneficial\
\
Overall the course is very informative and enjoyed the trainers style of delivery. There were times however, where the trainer referred to presentation material which was not included in the training pack. It would have been useful to include within the pack as relevant.\
the food was very nice, except on one day as i dislike chilli and am allergic to green beans, and so i was just left with the 3rd lunch option which was the very bland and boring vegetarian noodle dish. There were only 3 options and no option to mix and match the sides and protein elements\
I was very happy with the training, and I now have a good understanding of what\'82\'c4\'f4s now required of me when I carry out my first internal audit. The instructor Keith made the day interesting especially when carrying out the roleplaying of the factory boss during an audit.\
\
I had no issues with booking the training course.  I had booked direct with the hotel for accommodation.  There were continuous failures by the hotel in providing the basic functions for the training course (along with bigger issues for other delegates who had booked accomm through LRQA - as told by hotel training cancelled).  If it were one or two simple errors then this could be understandable - however this occurred continuously throughout the week.  \
Great course. It fully met my objectives.\
Excellent course for both experienced auditors for a 'refresh' and for new aspiring auditors.\
\
\
Sorry I was not involved in the course booking so I can no comment on this side of the course.\
\
For a course just on basic principles, it did a good job of covering required aspects of auditing.\
An excellent course, well delivered and interesting \
Enjoyable, relevant and informative.\
\
\
Excellent content and delivery. I now have every confidence in conducting 45001 Lead audits and a better understanding of the standard because of the course\
The training was delivered on-site by Steven Rogers. I found his style of instruction to be very conducive to learning. A relaxed and informal approach that set the newer members of my audit team at ease. Excellent subject knowledge and a free flowing, conversational approach encouraged participation by all\
\
\
I felt the course was well laid out\
The venue was excellent - the room the right size, easy access to refreshements and rest rooms, and the standard of the foode was very high. The tutor's delivery was engaging and informative, and supported with a wealth of anecdotes form his vast experience - these very much added to the course and served to illuminate the subject.\
Steve was brilliant. He made me feel relaxed and I felt like I took a lot more in because of his delivery style.   Steve took into consideration how people differed in learning styles and was flexible with his content to adapt to everyone else's needs.  I would happily be trained by Steve Rogers again.\
\
\
\
Paul was a great trainer and interacted with all those in the training. \
Albert Fessey was a very knowledgeable and engaging tutor, I really enjoyed my five days at Southampton.  Lunch was always at a very high standard and I enjoyed the variety.  There were an awful lot of paperwork handouts in addition to the course folder, sometimes it was confusing which paper we had to reference and follow. Desk space was limited, would have been better with one desk per student.  The course joining instructions would greatly benefit having a Google maps screen shot of where the car park exactly is. The post code given lead to half the course getting lost on the first day.\
The structure of the course was a bit haphazard and the presentation slides shown were different from those in the course notes.\
overall a very good training course, no complaints from me\
\
I was impressed with the course content and the trainer, it was a very comprehensive course  considering the timescale. The trainer delivered all the relevant information and answered all questions using examples to clarify different situations. The trainer gave everyone the confidence to speak up and to be comfortable asking the questions needed for the audit role play. I would happily recommend this course and trainer, i felt like I learned so much.\
Does this course need to be 2 days face to face? What about a blended option??\
\
My only comment is that my hotel room was a little too dark to read course documents. The desk lamp and standard lamp did not offer much brightness. The main room light was not bright enough to read for long periods.\
\
I enrolled onto this course as I am new to managing the ISO14001 system, but have a lot of experience and knowledge in the environmental field.  I felt that this course was much more tailored to Environment system managers  who manage the EMS as part of their role but is not necessarily their main role.  It was a good recap for me on various environmental issues but in all I may have benefitted more from a course where the EMS was discussed in more detail.  \
Facilities were very good however only criticism is that the room the course was held in was very cold.  Cannot fault the course, trainer or refreshments etc, all very good.\
\
\
As mentioned above, holding the course at the accommodating hotel avoids delegates travelling but I have no personal issue with this.  Mr Fessey, the course tutor held the attention of the delegates with a mixture of experience sharing and thorough knowledge sharing. \
Details about local parking for cars and for motorcycles included in information pack\
\
I found this course very intensive but the trainer I could not have had better, the amount of information to retain is immense. From a personal point of view I have learnt so much more now have the ability to interperate the standard fully in an audit situation. My only concern is the failing of the exam where does that leave me? \
The trainer was excellent.  There was no boring moment; and  trainees were carried along based on their understanding and on the job practice.  We were all given the chance to catch up with each other through interactive training approach adopted Mr Brian. He is a great Trainer.\
\
Pre course information provided the wrong postcode for the training location. Pre course work was unclear and poorly laid out\
As above.  The facilities would be ok if the toilets weren't such a long walk away from the training room.  I have to say the staff at ETC were very friendly and the food as well as the food display which made it all appetising was very nice.\
The course venue was very dated and could have been at a nicer venue.\
Paul delivered the course with consideration for all students capability and experience. He made the course very enjoyable whilst covering all essential aspects of required learning. Paul was professional and i would highly recommend him as a trainer.\
\
Trainer used own knowledge & materials to make this more of a workshop session addressing specific areas of interest / concern as the group was small.\
\
See above\
Should have reserved seating in the restaurant for fee paying course delegates\
Excellent facilities. Trainer was very good\
The course exercises can be better worded to ensure best usage of the time.\
\
\
\
\
Albert was the perfect trainer!\
I must admit I was dreading this course but your trainer, Albert Fessey, made it into an enjoyable experience.  I have definitely had a good week and achieved exactly what I was hoping to get out of the course.\
When training a team from one organisation it would be good for the trainer to review the audits previously completed by any of the team and critique current practice.\
\
Paul Smith is a very knowledgeable trainer with a unique and exceptional delivery.\
\
I found the course very interesting and learnt a lot. The trainer was excellent and very knowledgeable. He was also very approachable and made the 4 day course an enjoyable one.\
\
\
\
\
Trainer Keith was excellent and made complex controls simple and easy to understand.  \
This course was very worthwhile, the knowledge and experience of the trainer were exemplary.\
Keith was a very effective, personable, knowledgeable and overall great trainer on the subject. Using real-world examples and subject area knowledge to make the subject clearer and easier to plan the approach. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
Facilities were great.    On the JI's it would have been useful to have known that parking had been booked for me onsite as I parked at the train station as the JI's stated there was only 7 spaces available. \
\
\
Sarah was extremely knowledgeable and had a lot of content and information to communicate. Due to this is was sometimes difficult to ask questions. Felt you had to interrupt which doesn't feel like a nice thing to do. Otherwise, the course was extremely enjoyable and its always good to be trained by someone of Sarah's knowledge and experience.\
\
\
The information folder and hand outs are very complete and I felt that Kevin was very knowledgeable. The way the training was set (with activities, working in groups/pairs  really helped to get a much better understanding of audits.\
Albert the course instructor, had just the right balance of fun and information required to ensure all course attendees understand the presentation and content, with regards to the course material.  \
\
As above the meeting room was quite cold also the water from the machine to make tea could have been hotter. I understand that the caterers had changed so we were the first to experience, the cookies on Monday were very good as was the broccoli and stilton soup for lunch, and the meat platter on Tuesday was just right for a working lunch\
Albert is very knowledgeable and is able to put the subject across extremely well with lots if real life scenarios \
\
\
\
My ring binder clips do not close properly, and the handouts were not numbered in order.  I like things to be exact and found this annoying.\
Good provision of materials i.e. the powerpoint\
\
The trainer was very knowledgeable and passionate about the topics covered. Good examples of working application from his own experience to share with us,\
The course was very informative and the trainer kept it interesting as well.\
\
I'm afraid the hotel facilities were well off par compared to other LRQA venues I have attended.  The heating was not working in the room I was first booked into and the food and drink were poor value for money.\
\
The course is not set out very well and jumps from section to section. It was very intense from start to finish, Too many hours each day spent in the classroom and night time work needed.  Long days and feel if the material was set out better the overall experience would be improved \
\
There were one or two minor errors in the training materials, mainly spelling errors.\
\
\
Olivier was an excellent trainer, added humour and made people feel at ease. I was particularly nervous, and Olivier made everybody relaxed throughout.\
\
\
Really enjoyed  attending this course helped me a lot in bettering my knowledge within internal auditing and understanding the ISO 14001 standard. Tutor presented the course to us very well and I would recommend her to anyone who would benefit from attending this course too.\
my trainer was Brian Baron, very personable gentleman, great wealth of experience and knowledge of the standard, I feel that I have learned a lot from this course and am confident that my future auditing approach will be on target.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Prior to the course starting I have to admit I wasn't sure what to expect, as soon as we started the course Liz put us all at ease and delivered the course clearly and effectively. I feel since completing the course it has given me knowledge and confidence to be able to carry out Internal Audits within our company which is a credit to Liz's training.  The handouts and work we did within the group during the course were very effective. \
Course was booke by head office\
Really well delivered course. Engaging and relevant to the work that everyone does. Liz remembered the context in which we would all use the content and tailored the training with relatable examples. The course was fun and challenging.\
\
\
I found the course materials lacked example documentation such: audit schedule, audit notification, audit report, process based checklist, analysis charts etc etc.. (such documents are provide by other providers). I also thought that the course did not provide any guidance on how to apply the risk-based approach to audit programme management and how to present the results for Management Review.   I completed a Lead Auditor Course in 1992 and felt that the delivery and presentation of the subject matter had not moved-on. I was hoping the course had evolved; making use of modern E-LEARNING training delivery tools e.g. bite-size video clips embedded in I-pads or within the trainers lap-top. Back in 1992 the course was delivered by two tutors which improved the opportunity to learn (the essential) practical skills through role-play. This was limited by having one tutor.  The course was delivered over 4-days with an exam on the Friday morning - tough going. I felt that the whole course was focused on passing the written exam (memory test) set by IRCA. It would be more use in the real world if the practical skills formed part of the assessment - over an above writing a non-conformance etc.  The course was biased towards certification body auditing rather than performing 2nd party auditing which most delegates will complete. If that is the case the course should be marketed as such. The trainer used examples biased towards working for a Certification Body -  which is not relevant to the attendees.   I think it is shame that the course has not embraced modern training methods which would bring the subject matter to life (E-LEARNING). Unfortunately I found the course had not moved-on since I completed my original lead auditor course in 1992.    Please note: my comments are aimed at the course provide and not the trainer.\
\
Venue was nice. \
Course exceeded my expectations and was engaging and interactive throughout \
\
Good course. Enthusiastic knowledgeable trainer.\
\
The booking process itself was very simple via the LRQA website and I added accommodation at a later date, which again was simply to do. Also, the email response from your team to a question I had was clear, concise, polite and the response time was excellent.  The training room met our needs but the hotel on the whole was not great and certainly not to the standard I expected. The overall condition is best described as 'tired', the restaurant dinner menu stayed the same every evening and some dishes required a surcharge which may not be covered by the pre-booking, this was unclear.  It was pot-luck how many fresh towels, teabags, milk, biscuits etc were provided each day and the litter carpet when I entered the room stayed there all week (I deliberately ignored it just to see if they would clean the room). Details on the information cards left in the rooms were incorrect and, for example stated that BT Sports would be shown in the Vista bar. I based my plans for the evening around making it to the bar in time to watch Liverpool's Champions League game on BT, only to be told that they don't have it there.\
\
I was unable to complete the course, due to it being over prescribed;  they could only allow for 12 people on the course and 13 turned up, I gave my place up, as others had travelled some distance\
Paul was great, very knowledgeable and enthusiastic.  It was a pleasure to meet him. \
The course was very informative and interactive.  \
had problems with the course date been changed 3 times\
There was a bit of confusion in regards to the booking, with course date changes and being given the wrong dates. However this was all sorted once the pre course information came through. Liz was brilliant, she was helpful, patient and explained everything in such a relatable way. I really enjoyed the course. \
course was fit for purpose and informative.\
\
Can't comment on booking as this was planned through work.\
I did miss the option to advise on dietary requirements.\
\
Fab course the trainer was exceptional made the course informative with a slice of humour added which made the days more enjoyable.\
\
\
An exceptionally engaging trainer\
\
\
\
\
\
\
All information was relevant and helpful\
\
\
Send a request for feedback after the course is completed, as received this on last day of course, when this course hasn't been completed yet.\
just really enjoyed the course, very informative and felt I learnt a great deal\
Momcilo was very knowledgable and kept all attendees engaged at all times, he made what could have been a very dull training course interesting and relevant.  It would have been very helpful to have detailed at which venue at Wyboston Lakes the training was going to be held as I had to ask in different buildings until i found the correct place to go   The venue was suitable for training but looked tired and out dated. For the cost of the course I expected a better venue.\
\
Excellent course content.   The pace, tone & pitch of the delivery of the course by Liz was exemplar.  Good interaction with other attendees facilitated by Liz and over all a very enjoyable and rewarding 4 days.\
Very good trainer - explained things clearly & simply\
Brilliant course, it was very well delivered from Albert.\
\
\
Kevin's teaching style is excellent he covered the topics in such a  way it was easy to keep up. He gave us some great tips that we could apply when auditing. \
\
Albert was excellent. He clearly explained all aspects of the course and has an amazing knowledge base and experience of ISO9001, both 2008 and 2015.\
The course was delivered well and with brilliant knowledge. \
Apart from the above improvement I thought the course was very good and the Trainer (Kevin Collins) was excellent, he had great knowledge and his delivery method was brilliant. Thank You\
\
\
Trainer was excellent as well as the facility.\
\
Training was too focused on lean tools, the practical exercise was basically a JIT exercise rather than focusing on the 8D methodology \
Overall I'm very satisfied with the quality of training provided by LR - the course content, materials and delivery met and exceeded my expectations.  Steven made what is a fairly heavy topic engaging and relevant to our business. He is incredibly knowledgable of the regulations and a skilled trainer.  I would highly recommend this training to others.\
The course was very long and the 'home work' added an extra hour onto an (already long) 10 hour intensive day.  However I recognise this was probably required to ensure a good enough knowledge is received to enable the exam to be completed.   \
\
\
Liz Mansfield provided an excellent training and learning experience, she kept the group engaged throughout and her knowledge of the subject was first class. I will need to complete the Lead Auditors Course in the new year and will endeavour to select a course being delivered by Liz - she is a credit to LRQA.\
\
\
\
The teaching method of flip charts and little reference to the course training materials was personally for me very difficult to follow. The long days were not conducive to a valuable learning experience. This culminated in me being so tired both mentally and physically that I could not complete the exam on the final day. It should also be made clear before enrolling on the course that candidates should have some experience of auditing. I don't and I felt this put me at a disadvantage compared to the other candidates. My lasting memory of this course is a dancing trainer scribbling on flip charts and being exhausted.\
Steven Rodgers was fantastic. He ensured the class were engaged, made a bland subject fun and had such enthusiasm for the subject. He was funny and liked to check people were following. \
N/A\
I'd like the presentation that is shown to exactly match the slides that are in the handout.\
The training materials are very good. I'd like the slides in the folders to match exactly what's being shown by the presenter\
\
Excellent course - Steve's enthusiastic approach was ideal for what could have been a very dry presentation. Notes were thorough, and I really appreciated the printed versions of the regulations. I enjoyed the activities and felt that most of them were helpful to increase my understanding of the regulations. I think that there were points where we were jumping around a lot between topics which was slightly confusing but I think this is the nature of the regulations (cross-referencing different sections). Overall, very beneficial course.\
The trainer (Steve Rogers) made what is a rather dry topic an enjoyable experience.\
The trainer (Steve Rogers) made what is a rather dry topic an enjoyable experience.\
Good course - interesting and took us through a step by step process of the ISO standards for QMS and EMS. There was lots of interactive exercises to get involved with which made the learning more interesting, better to understand and more engaging - keep this up, the interactive the training is the better! The trainer was experienced and helpful when we asked any questions. Because we had a combined QMS and EMS auditor training course, I would have like to have spent more time on the EMS side as this is what I do day-to-day. \
\
\
\
\
\
A very interesting course and gave me the confidence to audit my company\
A really good course where I learnt a lot and provoked further thoughts \
The welcome email lacked a lot of details that would have been helpful 1. There was no map that was easy to access 2. parking arrangements were not mentioned which caused difficulties 3. Timings for the course (particularly the end of the course) were in accurate.  Accurate timings are more helpful when it comes to planning the day. i.e. day 1 finished at 4:30 (rather than the stated 5:30) and day 2 finished at 4:20 (rather than the stated 5:30). I prefer the earlier finish time, but being told it would be earlier would have been much more helpful.  During the course I felt the material jumped around a lot and it was not always clear where to add extra notes as the course went along.  The course contained 2 quizzes, it would have been nice to keep a copy.\
\
\
I got a lot from this course the gentleman's delivery was very good. Please thank him \
\
\
\
I was pleasantly surprised by this course. I expected it to be informative but probably a bit dry. However, Keith was outstanding and managed to deliver a highly engaging course, providing a lot of good and easy to understand real life examples and answered all the questions we had. I think the experience was also enhanced because it was quite a small group of four people in total and nothing felt rushed and I felt I got a good amount of attention from Keith when I needed it. It was a good balance between theory and practical parts/exercises. Keith got a real talent to deliver these courses and is a real asset to your company!  The venue was nice and a good atmosphere to learn in. \
As above, all was good except the room the course was delivered in. Considering the rest of the building is nice, you come on to that corridor and it smells, then the room is totally uninviting, narrow and cold. Hardly have room for materials on the very narrow tables.\
Great trainer great course. Really enjoyed it.\
\
Well delivered and organised\
Site plan in advance would help as Milton signboard not obvious\
Some of the course materials were out of sync with the numbers on the tabs, but overall this was a minor issue. Interesting case studies. \
\
Getting to the venue was slightly challenging as postcode use on SatNav was inaccurate. However, everything else was superb from facilities, lunch. I have attended many courses over the years and Liz is right up there in terms of knoweldge, delivery, getting us involved. Not only did I learn more about ISO9001:2015 I also took away some really good tips for running sessions. I would not hesitate to recommend LR to anyone.\
\
\
very knowledgeable trainer, used examples of his experience.  Personally I would have liked more group interaction.\
\
\
Didn't receive pre-course pack but that was because I booked the day before, amazing experience and very useful\
Excellent well presented course, great detail delivered by a good trainer who interacted well with the group \
\
\
The trainer was exceptional, he presented the training to fit in with all members of the team. He was engaging and trusting. He made us Laugh and he made us think about our situations and auditing and how to structure the audits. He was very knowledgeable and very likeable, he made us all feel at ease. \
\
\
Excellent level of detail. I would like to suggest that for future courses the idea of auditing a company's own procedure is a good one. I have had feedback from my colleagues that this is an excellent method to check understanding and really re-enforced the message in a more familiar context.\
Keith was excellent. He was very knowledgeable about the course, the ISO9001:2015 standard and additionally other standards. He took the time to answer our questions and was able to offer advice based on his own experience. \
Keith was excellent. He was very knowledgeable about the course, the ISO9001:2015 standard and additionally other standards. He took the time to answer our questions and was able to offer advice based on his own experience. \
\
\
\
Online booking experience could be smoother - originally a promotional discount code wasn't applied which had to be manually rectified.   The course materials could do with proofreading - there were several typographical errors. The reproduced slides in the course notes are too small - some text is impossible to read. \
Food was cold both days. The fish on the second day was horrible.\
Our trainer was very engaging all the way through and made the learning experience enjoyable.  The facilities were the only downside. The room was long and narrow which made looking at stuff a little hard. A square room would have been better. Not sure what was going on with the heating. The thermostat didn't really seem to work. The food was not really of a great standard. The snacks and pudding were great, but mains were not that good. Mondays Cod was bland and very wet. Not at all nice. The Curry today was better, but a little fatty. \
A really insightful course made very enjoyable by an excellent instructor. \
An day that was both educational and enjoyable. The small group got along very well with each other - sorry I was a couple of minutes late - blame google maps!\
A picky point; the room had heating that was either on or off, and deficient blinds meaning there could be a lot of glare at times. \
The food was good, but the overall experience of the venue being away for 3 nights and 3 days was that it was a tired one and very different to any venue that has been used before when I have gone on LRQA courses.  The site was also quite isolated and without a Gym or pool the venue was quite staid.  I only received the course material a week before the event and I anticipated it to be received before hand  but wasn't actually told when I would receive the pre course material. \
The course hotel was of poor standard, rooms was not clean. I was not booked in for breakfast every morning. Wouldn't recommend this venue for a course, when staying at the hotel\
\
\
Hotel facilities were limited. \
The parking availability for visitors was a little inadequate and an unnecessary stress when arriving at the venue.  The Trainer was very nice to chat with and extremely knowledgeable but did spend a lot of the time pushing the environmentalist agenda which though interesting, it was not what we were there to learn and understand.\
\
\
\
Excellent course run by very good trainer.  At the start of the course I couldn't imagine how I could achieve my objectives when faced with the course folder containing the materials and, although it took some time to begin to grasp the 'how' by the end of the third day it started to take shape and the links began to form.  Subsequently by the end of the last day I felt I had 'travelled' a long way through four very intense work/learning days but had gained so much  by way of understanding and knowledge of the methodology and application of the Standard and, in achieving my aims for attending the course.   Congratulations on a well organised and run course; perfect mix of theory and practice.\
\
It may have been useful to obtain a little more information on what the delegates were looking to get out of the course ahead of the start of the event to guide the requirements/delivery of the event.\
Need to receive the pre course material more than 2 weeks before starting the course \
\
The restaurant of the hotel has very limited options and the location it's quite in the middle of nothing. Maybe would be better something in a village, not necessarily in the city. \
Paul was brilliant and relaxed which immediately put me at ease. He was light hearted but clearly knew a lot, which was taught in a way that made me feel confident enough to take part in the group exercises without any anxiety of being wrong. \
Informative overview of ISO 13485. Well delivered, informative and educational. \
\
Course venue was poor and hotel accommodation extremely basic. Find another venue!\
\
\
Course was very well delivered, and the trainers were clearly very knowledgable and willing to answer questions. Where required they were able to go and get some answer for us. Very empowering when implementing the regulation.  Hotel was not the best. Walls very thin, so noise leaked into the training room quite often. Sleep was not great either as the rooms above very noisy. Mostly footfall from people walking around, so not due to behaviours. Hi \
The trainer, Kevin Collins, was very knowledgeable about the course subject. He also made the course enjoyable by including humor and made you feel comfortable to ask any questions if you were unsure of anything. \
\
\
Please consider sending the pre course material via email. \
\
\
Good course well delivered by trainer Paul\
I found the course to be excellent and met my requirements if there was any way that more practice could be scheduled in on the agenda in relation to Audit trails it would be beneficial.\
Although the material was late it didn't hinder our trainer and he managed to carry on without any noticeable hindrance. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Brian was very informative and delivered the training to a standard that everyone could interpret and understand.  Very impressive.\
Excellent workshop found it very beneficial. Paul was very helpful and great opportunities for discussion. Provided great supporting handouts really useful to help understand key standard changes \
\
The course handouts were simply a repetition of the powerpoint overhead slides which were shown.  It would have been better if real world examples had been given.  I am still bemused by ISO45001 and the need for it in our particular organisation, apart from being told it is something we need.\
\
Excellent up-beat, engaging and energised delivery on subject matter that, for most, can be very dull and turgid.  Even managed to weave in some humour!   And no reliance, at all, on reading through pages and pages of awful Powerpoint slides.  Steven Rogers is an exceptionally good trainer (in MDR at the very least).  Hat off to him!\
\
Keith was completely knowledgeable in giving his training. There was also some good humour mixed with the serious training which always makes for a relaxing atmosphere.  Also no question went un answered whether it was related to the course or not. \
Trainer was excellent. Very knowledgeable and helpful with everyone despite the difference of experience of trainees.\
\
the facilities within the hotel were excellent, though i think the round tables weren't the best for putting down the course materials and completing tasks, it was a bit cramped.  The training material booklet seemed basic and could have been improved as this was what we were taking away with us. The trainer gave us the slides as we had asked for them and they were better. i think if the slides corresponded with the booklet then that would have been easier to follow because the trainer was taking about certain things and you weren't sure were to find it. Also the training exercises were in the booklet, there was a diagram which we all wrote our answers on and then we had to use it again later for another exercise, which didn't make it easy.\
I was very new to the subject of Medical Devices so this was a great overview of the new MDR for me.  \
I found the course very valuable as a refresher for my auditing skills and as a good introduction to auditing to the ISO 27001 standard. Keith, our course instructor was very knowledgeable and professional, and I appreciated his ability to integrate examples from his own auditing experiences into the training. \
\
Quite complex given all the legislations and references to all the different standards.\
An excellent training course delivered with enthusiasm and perfectly pitched for a group with various levels of experience in the subject area.\
\
\
Really good course,  The trainer really knew the content and was able to deliver the information in a practical way which suits my learning style.\
Cheryl Savage, the trainer who ran the course was fantastic and very knowledgeable in the ISO 9001 standard and other standards.  Two minor criticisms about the course material, although the trainer supplied a copy of the ISO 9001 standard to use, had she not had them, it didn't mention that delegates would need to bring a copy with them.   I would also suggest maybe within the price of the course that delegates are offered a copy of the standard to keep?\
The venue was nice and the course interesting. There were some typos in the slides however which, particularly when on the topic of quality, don't reflect on LRQA having spent a lot of care and attention on putting the resource together.   The test questions were also vague and written not using language that was used in the training making some parts hard to answer definitively. The final question could also benefit from the term retained being emboldened if LRQA wish the test to be a test of learning rather than comprehension. \
\
\
The trainer on this course (Cheryl Savage) is obviously massively experienced in her field (Quality systems) and she was a great instructor. The venue was great, well provided for coffee/tea and the staff were all more than helpful and friendly. The food was high quality and i would definitely recommend this venue to others.\
\
\
\
\
\
It would have been good to have the course information earlier so we had more time to work through it before attending the course.  Overall course was very good and i felt that I walked away having learned a good deal\
\
My responses take in to account the subject matter which for me is fairly dry (policy standards rather than the environment!)\
\
I did get a little lost with the various pieces of paper.  The exercises were good once I understood the objective.  \
There was a lot to get through and it did feel a bit rushed, as a complete novice in this activity I could have done with it being a bit slower paced, but this is not a reflection on Sarah\
\
\
I enjoyed the course and Brian was extremely knowledgeable on the subject and so was very helpful with any questions that we had. I would recommend this course and the trainer to anyone looking at internal auditing.  \
\
\
Keith was great. Excellent pacing to the course with plenty of interaction learning which made it more engaging.   He also explained concepts really well, and answered all questions at him thoroughly. \
\
I found the workshop informative and will actively utilise the knowledge that I have taken away.\
\
\
It was a good course that kept me interested\
\
I didn't receive the pre-course information so unfortunately was not aware of the course start time and did not have an opportunity to do the pre-course reading.\
\
\
Very well presented course and was very enjoyable to attend. \
\
I think the quality of the course deserves a better location for delivery.  David White is an excellent instructor. Has great depth of knowledge. Has loads of experience. A negative comment would be that the same things were repeated several times, but overall, I'm very pleased.\
\
The trainer was very knowledgeable, but didnt always respond with feedback during discussions i.e. a point would be raised but he often didnt add to the discussion, just moved on.\
Course is a 10 day event being compacted into a 5 day event, this caused me a problem. Having suffered a heart attack in 2013 it has slowed down my ability to take in information at a fast pace. I asked if it was possible to tape the lectures to listen at my own pace this however was not allowed for a ownership of intellectual content issue. Telephone Conversation with sales informed me that there is a plan to use Elearning this I have experienced in the past and believe it would be an improvement it would allow for the bulk of the required knowledge to be revised in a planned manner this would have been a great help to myself. Regards, Jeff Lewis. \
Trainer (Brian Baron) had excellent knowledge and was able to put across in an understandable way. The way he ran the course kept the energy levels going on what were quite long days for training.\
Information on the timetable and pre-course reading was sent only 3 working days before the course. This was not very convenient for planning. \
Overall my comments for the two day course were very positive regarding both the agenda and the engagement of the Trainer. All of the attendees were allowed to participate and this was specifically encouraged by the trainer. This was a key element of why I felt the course was worthwhile and it also made it more interesting and enabled greater retention of concentration throughout.\
\
\
I will definitely recommend this course.\
\
A fantastic course.\
Trainer Kevin was very interactive and knowledgeable and made the course enjoyable and interesting\
\
Booking arrangements and admin all very good. i had to expedite pre-course info a week before the course began, being sent out two weeks before the course would have been better.  There was more flexibility in the course timings (last day finish) than indicated when asked pre-course.  This can be important when planning travel.\
The highlight of the course was Mr White, the facilitator. He was a gentleman and extremley informed.  Not only did I enjoy the course, but I enjoyed his company. No question was uninformed and everything was supported in the name of learning.  Very impressed and I wish him all the best.\
Very detailed course simplified to match the audience experience, clear well thought out training material. Clearly a lot of effort made in setting out the course material.\
Whilst in principle the facilities were good, rooms, restaurant, coffee station etc. the standard and quality could have been better\
More time should be allocated to the exam.  We had a mix of experience on the course, some who were already experienced auditors in OHSAS 18001 and others, like myself, who were not.  The exam questions do take some time to refer back to the clauses in some instances and there were some of us who took the exam who were running out of time and felt we did not do ourselves nor the exam justice.\
\
excellent course delivery \
It would be great to have all the diagram Momcilo is drawing as part of the material as they are really clear and help the understanding of the concept.\
\
\
\
Pre course notes did not arrive with me, likely lost in internal mail at my site.  However as I didnt know I was going to be sent them so made no effort to look for them before attending\
the hotel was a bit too far from the location and we had to take the taxi every time that was causing a lot of delay\
Some of the materials didn't match what was presented.\
Pre-course materials were not received.  Had to chase for electronic copies to print out last working day before the course.  Copy of ISO 45001 could not be emailed so had to source a copy from own company.\
Facilities at LR HO was good, and whilst the hotel was lovely, it was too far out and the taxis to and from were appalling. You need to sort this out before the next course\
Excellent facilities\
The course was very intense with a lot of information to get through. This was made fairly straight forward by the trainer (Cheryl Savage). She is fantastic at her job and made the process very enjoyable. Her strategy and delivery was exceptional. I would recommend this course and Cheryl to others without a doubt. Thank you.\
\
The trainer (Albert) was outstanding, his depth of knowledge was unquestionable and he made, what was at times, quite a dry subject thoroughly enjoyable.  The course material (ring binder) was completely unfit for purpose, you couldn't turn from page to page without having to pull all the documents out and reposition them, very frustrating and time consuming.\
I thought that the trainer was great! She gave lots of examples which made the theory a lot easier to relate to.  The training folder is very complete and easy to use.  Just one suggestion for improvement: make all the sheets that have only theory in a specific colour. When revision time comes, it would be easier to find those sheets.\
Very good course, informative, good pace\
The flow through the work book could be better and it was not always clear where to file additional handouts\
Albert was very experienced and knowledgeable but sometimes difficult to understand and tended not to listen to answers given by delegates to questions he asked. He also had a cough and was perhaps not well enough to deliver this two day course.   His jokes were not funny and somewhat dated.  Talking about ex-wives is not relevant and really only made me uncomfortable. \
When arriving at LRQA Birmingham on the first day of the course, it was not easy to locate your building. The signage was very poor. I am not referring to road signs, but corporate signage on your building. There was a small 'LR' sign (logo) by the car-park access barrier but you could really benefit from clear corporate branding on your building, especially something that is clearly visible as people drive towards you up the access road.\
\
As above the pre course information did not arrive in time for us to undertake the pre work and given the extent of what was required and the level of work during the course there wasn't an opportunity to catch up.\
Course documents difficult to filter through due to the type of lever folder used.\
As she people, some of the course was aimed a little too basic.\
Folders were too small for the contents and holes punched in the wrong place. Lots of typos/mistakes on the slides....instructor informed\
Training materials were of a poor quality. Slides were too small on the page so difficult to read. The pages had been hole-punched but they didn't line up with the folder so the pages didn't turn. Folder too slim for the amount of paper in it. Random hand outs that could have been included in the course pack. \
\
The training pack was not very user friendly. The pages did not turn in the ring binder.\
I enjoyed the introduction course and now will be looking at other courses relating to medical device regulations perhaps the two day course and will certainly be interested in the lead auditor medical device course/qualification\
\
Course intensity needs improvement.  Daily agenda start and finish time was not clear before course booking. This should be made available so attendees can commit and prepare accordingly. \
\
\
Room at the Holiday Inn felt quite cramped and stuffy. \
This is a very in depth course and the pre-course material was delivered late.  In addition, it was not clear when booking the length of the working days required and as I travelled from home, a 2-hour extension was very exhausting.  It would have been useful to have more previous exam questions throughout the week.  Finally, it would be good to have a course folder that contains everything (within reason) needed to revise for the final exam as there were fragmented sources of information required. \
Pre-course information could have been received slightly sooner because it involved pre-course work. Or this could have been flagged on booking the course.  Facilities were fine but possibly a tad small and no break out areas for group work.\
\
The facilities were good, although the temperature of the room was difficult to maintain comfortably. At lunch the drinks orders were slow in being taken and delivered, considering we were quite a small group. Other than this it was overall a good experience.\
\
\
The original course date was cancelled and then the venue for the replacement course date was changed 1 week prior to the course.  The venue was good, access was good, free car parking and food was excellent.\
The course was very professionally delivered and the trainer was very knowledgeable on the subject matter  \
This was a very good course, and the facilities and trainer made the best of what is a very difficult subject and a tight timescale.\
Course content was perfect.  Exercises were relevant to the theory and because the trainer was so experienced, the slides did not lead the course which is always a positive\
Dave White past his vast wide knowledge of auditing to the group in a professional manner. Every thing was explained and more than less and example was given to make sure the question was understood, feedback was always given from an answer given. A well run and enjoyed course which has left me with confidence to carry out internal audits.\
Excellent course, Tim was fantastic and tailored the 2 days to exactly what we needed, thank you Tim!\
Excellent course, Tim was fantastic and tailored the 2 days to exactly what we needed, thank you Tim!\
The training material was fine but expertly enhanced by Dave White's knowledge, i would recommend this course and tutor to anyone who needs it!\
Excellent course with and excellent trainer, can't fault it and would recommend.\
\
I wish we could have had more time to do role play and case studies.\
\
\
see comment 1 I would have found it useful if the relevant clauses from ISO19011 were included where apprpriate\
The trainer adapted the course perfectly to our needs and was completely dedicated to ensuring that we all followed the whole course well and to motivating everyone and to keeping everyone focused. Excellent experience! The best trainer I have ever had.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Fantastic location, and great training. All round great course!\
\
As stated the only issue I encountered was the need to remind the hotel catering almost on a daily basis that I was a celiac and required gluten free options; usually responded promptly.  Overall the course was good with the tutor reinforcing the learning through his wealth of experinece and knowledge.  The course participants were all fully engaged and shared their experinces as well to further enhance the learning.\
great course, learned a lot and actually felt challenged \
I didn't get notification of my pre-course pack delivery by email.\
thoroughly enjoyed the course (however demanding it was), gained a lot of knowledge which will help in the future \
\
Only comment is the recommended hotel seemed quite far away.  Stephen fielded a lot of questions - which was appreciated.\
One of the best courses in terms of content and delivery. Trainer knowledge in subject matter is very good. \
I went into the course not knowing much about Audits in general, ive learnt lots and will help me within our company.\
I really enjoyed the course, I found the examples used easy to understand and so my understanding of the various parts of the course was much better. I liked that the course was more activity based as this really helps with my learning. \
it would be useful to have a copy of the presentations, some of the slides differed from the hand-outs\
\
\
Excellent course delivered by Kevin Collins.  Managed to make the impossible seem possible.  Thank you.\
An option to be given a copy of the AS9100 standard would have been useful.\
\
\
\
\
Excellent training that provided a great deal of clarification.  I really enjoyed the class.\
\
\
The booking team were very knowledgeable and helpful when I queried which course was most suitable for me; the course delivery was exemplary and Wayne was easy to approach with any questions, and is clearly a subject matter expert. The training venue was excellent, special thanks to Tibe, Mercy and the catering team for keeping us so well fed.\
\
A very good course and the pace felt right\
Content was good, training materials were good.\
\
Great insight into the MDR from a knowledgeable trainer.  Friendly and helpful organisers.  A worthwhile course. \
\
\
I was a little worried about the course as I had very little knowledge of QA prior to the course, but Liz the instructor was great and it was welcoming that there wasn't a powerpoint slide in sight.\
Toilets level one were a bit smelly even before 8:00am when no-one about.\
\
\
\
Excellent course very well delivered \
\
A great well organised course. The learning materials are great and of good quality. The course was delivered in a very interactive way which helped to follow the structure of the standard and got me thinking of how to be an EMS manager and What is needed for an environmental management system. I would recommend the course. Sarah also did a great job delivering the course and was able to answer all questions or provide advise.\
\
\
\
Excellent tutor, perfect balance of theory and application to our working experiences/roles; plenty of opportunities to ask questions/share experiences.  Made ISO 9001 less daunting and through use of lots of real examples helped to make it understandable.  Would thoroughly recommend - good value for money and 'does what it says on the tin!'\
Standard materials for the topic\
\
Marek was a fantastic tutor with an extensive background in the course subject. He engaged with us and made the experience very worthwhile.\
\
Overall, very good training and learning experience. I had training course with Momcilo before for ISO9001 QMS and i was delighted when i saw him delivering this course again. Momcilo knowledge was outstanding and importantly he made the material very interesting and easy to remember.\
Having never done this type of course before I found it informative and nondiscrimative. Keith was incredibly helpful and always on hand with guidance when needed. He's a mine of information which helped me personally to relate a bit more to my own roll and place of work. \
Slides slightly out of step with some of the handouts - but not badly so.\
Keith Mythen the trainer was fab and made the course fun\
\
It was useful to work directly with the Standards within the course and look things up for ourselves - it made it relevant.\
\
\
\
Trainer had been knowledge about Iso  No practical task/excessive  No examples  from Food or drink business \
Trainer, content and facilities were fantastic.  \
The course was really good, I thought David who conducted the course was a very approachable, knowledgeable and helpful individual. He had time to speak to everyone and answer any questions they had. Very approachable and excellent delivery of material. He definitely has a vast experience and knowledge of Auditing and this was clearly shown throughout the course. \
As mentioned earlier, I thoroughly enjoyed the course and felt the trainer Kevin Collins, held everyone's attention and made the subject very interesting.  The course material was well presented and easy to understand and also a useful reference document for the future.  \
\
\
Very much enjoyed, well presented, and good overall content.\
\
Very good day, break out sessions were helpful and allowed wider discussion of the clauses  \
Excellent course content - very well presented - engaging and fun!  1 minor 'Scope for improvement' . Course did not carry out any Critique of existing internal audits or audits we have previously carried out. \
\
\
\
Very good course, Keith made the subject much more interesting than I think it actually is (!) Excellent delivery by Keith\
Course was well delivered, with appropriate adjustments made through the day. People were kept engaged.\
excellent course\
\
\
\
\
The two trainers were really good, even the cleaner and receptionists were absolutely brilliant, nothing was too much trouble, always a friendly face and always willing to have a conversation.  Bit like home from home\
\
Very enjoyable course delivered in a 'fun to learn' way by an extremely knowledgeable tutor. Level of two way interaction was excellent.\
Thoroughly enjoyed the course.  Trainer showed good application of the theory and how to implement into practice.\
\
We were told beforehand that there were only 7 visitor spaces for LRQA- this was not the case upon arrival, there was still quite a few spaces round the back of the car park allocated to LRQA Visitors- this information should be shared with people attending the course.   \
\
The trainer was excellent, very personable and helpful and his knowledge was second to none.\
The trainer was excellent, very personable and helpful and his knowledge was second to none.\
Too much information for two days. Handout should be given to the attendee at least one week before course start.\
excellent course run by an excellent trainer, very knowledgable\
Albert was a dear. Please pass my thanks on to the lovely catering lady. I enjoyed the course, first one I've been on which I haven't fallen asleep in! I would prefer to have received all training material in softcopy, but I understand why this isn't possible. Very aimed towards external auditing, but it could be that my colleague explained this course to me differently. All in all, I felt confident going in to the exam and more knowledgeable on ISO 9001:2015, Quality in general, and how to audit. Would defo book through you guys again ^_^ thank you!\
The course was informative, well delivered, interactive and well organised.\
The material would be suitable for a 3 day course\
Superb\
\
The only reason I reduced the facilities down was due to the potential lack of parking. On the pre-course information it said that there was a possibility that you would need to park at the train station. \
The trainer was extremely knowledgeable, friendly and approachable. I thoroughly enjoyed this course.\
\
Trainers slides were slightly different to our slides\
NA\
Overall I was happy with the course the booklet generally had the information in it which matched the course with only 2 pages which didn't have the required information however for the cost of the course I did expect a good pen and booklet as per the internal audit course completed in Germany, I have recommended this course to one of my colleges. My biggest complaint would be the facilities, the Novotel Hotel was a disgraceful filthy hotel, the first room I had smelled so badly I had to move,  the next room it took them 3 days to repair the safe which I requested the repair every day. Generally, the hotel carpets were stained which was not a surprise has dogs were in the rooms and I found dog mess on the hall carpet. The customer service was terrible with the restaurant /bar area standing out as being particularly bad, poorly manned by individuals who had at best a basic lack of manners across the piece whilst watching people struggle with equipment which did not work correctly. One incident I witness had a lady in a wheel chair ignored as she struggled with the juice which was blocked, all the time a young woman who was looking after plate collection etc. just watched her! Whilst some staff still in training looking after the bar area. In brief it was dirty, the staff did not understand basic manners or were over whelmed as they were untrained and the management that had poor grasp of the issues.\
Very good course and well presented\
The course should provide delegates with a copy of the relevant standard --- in this case, ISO 9001:2015.\
Excellent training course was delivered by Momcilo Kovacevic with his super knowledge of the new ISO 9001:2015 standard.  \
The trainer Momcilo was exceptional, engaging, knowledgeable and I felt included and accepted within an hour of the course beginning.  The trainer ensured the course was interesting and understood in a very relaxed yet informative way.  Have attended many training courses and this was one of the best.  I'd imagine  any company would be very, very lucky to have a 'Momcilo' - one of those special  people you don't forget. Simply Brilliant!      \
\
Activity materials and regulations were made available, however copies of slides were missing. This made it difficult to take notes. \
Course was delivered at exactly the correct level. The presenter's knowledge was first class where he was able to provide working examples. Well done Steve!\
Slides used on screen did not match print-out slides provided, so note-taking was difficult.\
The knowledge of the trainer I thought was first class, he was able to provide us with detailed working examples which helped explain the application. The engagement was spot on .... Steve delivered the course at exactly the right level.\
Didn't get the pre-course information until I rang up a few days before. I realise that this is because the information was sent to a central booking agency that didn't pass it on but could actual attendees contact details not be used.\
I am yet to understand how the course will meet with my objectives as i have not yet had time to utilize the skills/knowledge. Training materials seemed OK once they were received, but the incorrect material was sent twice over the 2 day course and therefore didn't finally receive the correct material until part way through day 2. ( Although the trainer did well to adapt and overcome this issue, it would still have been better to follow with the material being available from the start)\
\
Trainer did not connect well with the audience in my opinion.\
Trainer did not connect well with his audience in my opinion.  \
\
\
\
\
thought the booklet could have been better, some of the content discussed was not included\
\
Most enjoyable and very informative. Trainer was second to none\
I thought Momcilo Kovacevic was very knowledgeable about ISO and its Clauses. My negative responses are that I thought he focussed mostly on 1 business sector during the course i.e. Southampton University\'82\'c4\'b6 there were many other business sectors to use as examples and he NEVER once used my business sector as an example (Airport), so I felt excluded some of the time and had to work harder to relate ISO to what I know. Also, I felt Momcilo at times actually dismissed a lot of my contribution during the Course and it became more evident as the Course progressed.  I discussed this with another attendee and he even said he noticed it.  Maybe it was a clash of personalities. Sometimes Momcilo seemed to forget the level of Management in the room and (it\'82\'c4\'f4s his style) seemed to treat us like children, with phrases like \'82\'c4\'fawe have just discussed 7.5.2\'82\'c4\'b6 it could be in 7.2, if there is section 7.2.\'82\'c4\'f9\'82\'c4\'b6 How can there not be a section 7.2 if we have just read 7.5???  This technique wore off after a few times. Finally, he kept mentioning his educational achievements, 3 degrees I think\'82\'c4\'b6 but after a while, I kept thinking, \'82\'c4\'fawho cares\'82\'c4\'f9\'82\'c4\'b6 it was often used in a self-deprecating context, but it also wore off. This is how I felt, but for others, maybe all of the above was ok.\
Less anecdotes required!\
\
\
Good course which was well presented. Interest maintained throughout, interactive with the right balance of audience participation. \
The first day did not get of to a good start and the day did not get any better.  By the time we had got to dinner we still had not covered the agenda for the morning and had to continue it in the afternoon.  Comments were made that we could be here till 6-7 pm.  I told them I had a conference call at 6.30pm so I told them I had to leave by 5.45pm.  As a result we whizzed through the rest of the agenda cutting out the case studies.\
\
The course materials should have been checked and sent correctly the second time round.\
\
\
Unfortunately due to circumstances beyond Moncillo's control the training material did not arrive until day 2 of the course, however, he managed exceptionally without and when I checked the content of the material he had missed nothing.\
Very good course, detailed content, informal atmosphere\
\
\
Really well presented course, the trainer made in both entertaining and informative\
Excellent training course. Documentation provided is excellent. \
\
A few errors in some of the screenshots of slides.\
Some mistakes in the training materials whereby the coursebook did not have the same information as the powerpoint presentation.  As a group who are Lead Auditors in 9001 already we could have concentrated less on Annex SL and more on the standard, particularly the operations section.\
\
As seasoned auditors we had many questions, some of which may have been beyond the scope of the course.  Paul took them all in his stride.  The course left me feeling confident that I have the understanding to be able to audit to the new standards.\
\
I'm not confident that I made notes on all the points that were raised on the screen or flipchart that I would require in future\
It was nice that the trainer was willing to deliver the course to the pitch that I required. The room was full of people who has a lot of knowledge about the relevant standards and we needed to know some areas in more depth and the trainer was able to do this without relying on PowerPoint.\
\
\
Have no complaints whatsoever. Everything was organised and went smoothly. Keith was very professional, knowledgeable and engaged with everyone who attended.\
The trainer was excellent.  Very knowledgeable and easy to learn from. The venue was excellent.  Very clean, the facilities like the break out areas were great.  Good quality food and drink. \
Very enjoyable course.\
\
\
\
\
Albert was good at the training and made it intresting\
Very good course and gave an understanding of the subject. It would have ben useful to attend before our audit though.\
\
\
The course hand out file contained numerous references to the old 18001 Standard, including references and text from the clauses of the old Standard. it got to the point where I just didn't trust the course notes, the Trainer had to manually change some of his slides during the course and he was extremely apologetic and embarrassed. This level of unprofessionalism is not what you expect from a company such as LRQA who are in the Business of Quality Assurance, the only saving grace was the quality of the trainer Brian Baron who was very good. based on the above I will not be recommending LRQA to my colleagues for future training courses. \
The course was for ISO 45001, there are references to OHSAS 18001 in the course materials which meant it was difficult to relate to 45001. Some of the clauses in the course book related to 18001 and not to 45001. This demonstrates poor document control and pre-reading by LRQA of the course material before being used for training purposes.\
The tutor was excellent, very knowledgeable and managed this course well. There were however several issues which were outside his control. The course materials (both pre-course and delegate notes) contained references to OHSAS 18001 rather than being clear on the ISO 45001 standard. There were also grammatical errors which indicated that the material was not to the standard I expected from the training provider.  I found that the course was specifically aimed at one learning style (activist) rather than catering for other learning styles - in my case a reflector. This caused me some difficulties as I felt that I struggled to assimilate some of the materials and therefore found it difficult to understand how the standard could be applied effectively. I would suggest that the use of the CovSec information throughout the course to carry out a full audit of the systems would help delegates to understand the process and the standard.\
I recived my pre course material and standard through post only after I returned from the course. This seems to be due to issue that I live in Finland and the material was returned once to LRQA due to insufficient postage to send the material outside UK. First stamp dated 11-07-18 and second 16-07-18. I managed to get the pre course material excluding the standard via email by contacting the LR training. I just had to find a copy of the standard my self and print the material out the evening before I started my journey to england. Through out the material given there were references to 18001 instead of 45001 which gave really sloppy and unprofessional appearance of the quality and preperation of the course material. The trainer Brian Baron was a redeeming feature of the course and managed to hold up the quality of the training and LR training image. Please make a fixed revision of the materials even by using simple find and replace function.\
For the cost of the course it would have been nice to have received a copy of the new 45001 standard as part of the training.\
The course was good however, it would have been useful to have a list of the changes required that will need to be implemented into our managements systems. It was more of a refresher to what topics are within the standard.\
\
\
Alberts depth of  knowledge of this subject and his lecturing technique is first class.\
\
Very good\
\
The audit exercise left a little spare time.  I would have liked the time to be used for more discussion of the subject matter.\
Too much anecdote and too little guided information  The tutor was great personally and knew his subject, but did not allow for any range or other points of view. The new risk based standards call for a less strictly formulaic approach and more dynamic risk assessment\
Paul was very knowledgeable and kept the positive momentum going. Paul had perfect examples of the explaining the complicated concepts and he also encouraged the participation from everyone in the group.  I would definitely recommend this course and will highly recommend Paul as the tutor for this course.\
The course was very informative and presented by a very knowledgeable, very experienced and engaging tutor. \
\
No pre course notes or copy of standard \
\
The training methods used and there delivery met all of my expectations. Normally this type of event is very dry, but the trainer ensured that all the training material was delivered in a relaxed but directed process that kept everyone focused and the course on track. Well done!\
There were a few mistakes in the material which we corrected by hand.\
great 2 days\
Some of the questions were challenged as they could have arguably had more than one answer, opposed to the model answer. Brian (the Trainer) was going to follow up on the questions raised. Overall, the migration training was delivered with true professionalism, Brian did an excellent job in keeping everyone engaged - well done Brian!\
\
\
The course leader helped to make the course entertaining and thereby keep the attendees engaged. \
The training session was exceptional. The material was explained very clearly by an extremely knowledgeable trainer. \
A useful training event, well presented.\
\
Extremely useful content, materials and very well presented. I was impressed.\
Excellent experience will be in contact in the future with training requirements\
While the trainer was very knowledgeable on the subject, at times there was some skipping back and forth which made it a little difficult to follow.  As I was on the appreciation course the previous day, there was a lot of information to take in but it didn't seem as bad this time. The audit practice on the 2nd day afternoon session was excellent and I found it very useful. Overall, I found the course beneficial but preferred the second day session over the first. On reflection, it would have probably been better for me to have done this a little later after the Appreciation course rather than the following two days (information overload!) but that was my choice.\
\
Keith was an excellent teacher - total knowledge of his subject - excellent ability to communicate the subject matter clearly and unambiguously. He provided many practical examples of the theories involved and the group exercises were clearly explained and expertly coordinated by Keith.  This ISO 27001 Auditor/Lead Auditor course was the best that I've attended - possibly ever - bravo.\
\
\
\
Course content was exactly what I was looking for; the intent and principles which lie behind the revised standard.  David Lawson's relaxed, informative and knowledgable delivery reinforced this effortlessly with contributions from the other candidates providing good embellishment of the way the principles can be and have been applied. Booking process was easy and accurate; my only mark down was I had to ask for my VAT receipt.   Facilities were of a good standard and easy to get to.  Only let down was the lack of air conditioning in the bed room....not that we usually need it, but this July it was missed. \
\
I have reduced the material score slightly because I felt it could be written in simpler terms. A lot of it was written in such a way that it was difficult to understand the meaning and exactly what was required on tasks without further explanation from the trainer to clarify. \
\
\
An excellent and extremely engaging course. It was most likely an accident based on numbers booked, but the small group (6) of trainees made for a very enjoyable and relaxed two days.  The presenter was engaging throughout and went to lengths to remember everyone's job to try and give direct examples to trainees of how the course content matches to their role.  Facilities were excellent and accommodating, especially during a heatwave!  Roleplay exercise with the presenter rather than other trainees was important in reducing the awkwardness of the exercise.\
Great course and very competent trainer.\
While the trainer was very knowledgeable on the subject, at times there was alot of skipping back and forth which made it a little difficult to follow due to the amount of information we were been given.\
I understand that this is an Appreciation and Interpretation of the Standard, however I feel that the trainer, who is very obviously a subject matter expert in this field and knows this work inside out, tended to jump around the standard in how he explained it, rather than a structured approach of moving through it front to back.\
I enjoyed the course\
I think that 13 people eon the course is too many, especially because the amount of content this course has.  I think the course could have had an extra day included so that we could have done a mock audit for a better understanding.\
The course was well- structured and thorough, giving a clear understanding of the standard and its requirements, through various examples. Mock internal audits through the training could be beneficial.\
Thoroughly enjoyed the course delivered very well by Albert with lots of real life examples from his wealth of experience.  The only poor comment to the course would have been the poor quality of the video for the example of carrying out the audit but this may have been more a computer glitch.\
Good course very well presented. Liked the interactive approach and presentation method.\
Would recommend that pre-course information is sent to the delegate directly rather than Central Company. I did not receive the pre-course information until the day before, as I rang to confirm start time for the course. \
We all explained our objectives to the trainer at the beginning of the day. Mine was to gain an understanding of ISO45001. When asked about their other knowledge, 3 out of 5 said they had 'some' or 'good knowledge of Annex SL (the core elements of new ISO systems). 4 out of 5 people said they had 'very little' or 'no' knowledge of 18001. Despite this and even after being reminded by a delegate that collectively we were not experienced with 18001, the trainer focussed on the elements covered by Annex SL and repeatedly skimmed over content because it was 'the same as 18001'. In conclusion, my experience of the course was that it was presented as a 'migration from 18001' course (focussing on the things that would be new to someone with experience of 18001 but not necessarily of other ISO standards) rather than an 'introduction to 45001'.  Since I specifically avoided the many 'migration from 18001' courses on the market, this meant that the course did not meet my expectations. That said, other delegates were helpful and it was valuable to make contact with them.\
I have scored the pre-course information lower as the information provided about the parking confused some people, as there appeared to be plenty of spaces to park and some people did not even bother as the paperwork stated that there was only 7 parking spaces available for people on the course.  The trainer asked if we had been advised that we could claim back the parking fee if we had to park at the station and pay, however this was not mentioned in the paperwork we received.  Other than that a great course, trainer and venue.\
If auditor training was required this training would help however I think it was targeted at the wrong market as we are trained auditors with good knowledge of the subject.   Some of the course material was out of date, could do with a refresh. \
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent course that exceeded  my expectations and has provided me with additional transferable workplace skills\
\
I was told taxi from hotel to course was free. In fact I had to pay \'ac\'a311. I would always choose LRQA for such courses and standards audit etc. A really useful day. Thank you.\
\
When we booked the course we should have been asked if we wanted it tailoring to our company i.e. to conduct audits on our work place.  This would have made the content easier to grasp.\
Feedback for consideration: - Course content is dated (RIDDOR reg referenced is 1995 not 2013 is just one example) - Course handouts folder does not have some of the helpful images and diagrams used in the presentation. - Incomplete material for one of the activities (No handout showing 'Bob' for the plating shop audit) - Audit prep check sheet has a key with  A = Abnormal N = Normal E = Emergency reflected on it which isn't used when training it out. - There are no examples of correctly completed audit documentation within the handouts\
Course material was uninspiring - very bland, lacked diagrams. There was no substance on the standards and the recent changes.  Course itself was inappropriate for the audience. Why were we sold an internal auditing course for a team of experienced auditors? What we needed/wanted was detail on the standards and recent changes.  The situation was only rescued to some extent by the trainer, who recognised the position he had been put in and was able to summarise some additional material he had on ISO 45001.  This had to be brief because of the course timetable.  Three days wasted.\
\
Seems our HR section booked the wrong course!  Should have been the 3-day ISO9001:2008 -> 2015 Conversion course.  Nevertheless, we made the most of the day, excellent presentation and some great real-world examples of audit experiences.\
The trainer made the course very interesting and was extremely informative.   I had no prior working knowledge of ISO so it was very useful to understand the language used and now be able to apply it.\
\
\
The course could have been fit into 1 day, there was a a lot of chatting and stories of old. More practice in actually auditing would have been more useful.  Most of the jokes were not funny, some borderline inappropriate. I had most of the senior management team on the course because we see the importance of ISO 9001, I would have rather they spent the time on topic than listening to stories and jokes. I understand the need to breakup the course, I feel this was done to much.\
\
This was a very professionaly presented training course and covered the subject matter from the attendees function aspect (supply chain). Very informative, well presented, level of detail was good and interaction with trainees. I will recommend this training to other in my organization, especially the leaders.\
The course could have been much shorter perhaps one day. It felt like our trainer was spinning it out. Some of the material was very basic and could have been explained in 5 minutes not one hour. The pace needed to be much higher to hold the interest of the audience.  I would have preferred one day on how to conduct an audit and then one day on practicing audits or understanding how auditors typically work.\
Could have been a little more organisation, however I'd say the problem with this was more at our end than with Richard's ability\
A great course with excellent tuition. I found the trainer's style of delivery perfectly suited to the delegate group who fully utilised their extensive wealth of knowledge and experience, using appropriate examples of personal experience to embed various aspects of the learning.   Unfortunately there were a couple of delegates who were often disruptive to the rest of the class (re: punctuality and use of mobile phone/laptop).  This this issue was addressed by the trainer but may have proved problematic to some delegates given that the course is particularly intense at times.\
Whilst the course classroom accommodation was good, I would not attend another course at this hotel. The hotel room was dirty and very dark, which did not make the evening revision any easier, on an already demanding course.\
I find it irrelevant with side after slide to be 'read out loud'. The exercises are a splendid way to know the content of the course and to start valuable discussions. Came very late and only one were provided.\
I was very happy with the training, the content was good and the training itself was well delivered. One individual on the course proceeded to use his laptop during the training which was a huge distraction despite being told not to do so on several occasions after complaints made by others on the course.\
my only critcism was that a fellow candidate was persistantly doing work on laptop throughout the course which was incredibly distracting. my understanding was that the tutor had spoken to him privately but his behavior continued . On the second day the tutor challenged him and he claimed ot be taking notes on the course , however i was in a position to see his screen and he was answering and sending email most of the morning. On the Thuesday I was amazed that once again the laptop was out and when the tutor pointed out that this was distracting other he left the room. This candidate was the most arrogant , inconsiderate fellow trainee that i have enounterer in 30 years of employment training. \
It should be noted that while I found the course overall thoroughly enjoyable and the trainer exceptional there was 1 individual trainee on the course who had a clear lack of respect for others on the course.   This person consistently used their laptop for taking 'notes' when it was clear that they were sending emails and doing work that was not related to the course. Along with this they were sending text messages to another trainee under the table.   It is my opinion that these actions not only showed a total lack of respect for the trainer but also for the other trainees. I hope these comments can be used to defend the trainer if required and I would be happy to be contacted by LRQA if required on this matter. \
Excellent course and instructor.  Presentation brought the subject into the 'real world' with example and a common sense approach which I could relate too.  Goal was to improve my knowledge and understand...it did that by providing better understanding of the 'process' vs. just procedures.  I feel much better prepared with gained skills to undertake auditing of 9001.  Highly rated and would recommend both course and instructor. \
It was the best training I have ever attended. The experience of Albert was amazing and his way of explaining makes this course very good although it is an advanced course of 10 hours daily it was a real pleasure attending it.  Thank you Albert. \
Excellent instructor, kept the room engaged in the course and improvised when needed to help get his points across. Had a good feel for the room and we progressed through the course at a good speed, not feeling rushed or dragged out. The 1st course in a while that I can genuinely see myself using the techniques I\'82\'c4\'f4ve learnt from this training in current and future roles, thank you!\
\
Kevin was very knowledgeable and used various examples to explain aspects of the matter being discussed.  Course was pitch at the right level given the varied experience of the attendees.  Course was not rushed  and plenty of discussion was generated over the two days.\
Momcilo was excellent in the conveyance & delivery of the understanding of ISO9001, and course material, clearing having a more than just a grasp of the subject matter. From having no real prior knowledge of what ISO9001 was about, I left with more than just an appreciation of it. Thank you Momcilo for bring an excellent trainer. For the price of the course I was surprised and a bit disappointed that a copy of the standard was not included. Regarding the facilities, there was no signage until you were in the correct part of the hotel to direct you to where the course is being held. The coffee facilities were not great (from a machine) and the lunch wasn't up to much either. \
This course is largely focused on understanding the intent of the various clauses in ISO9001, so there is quite a lot of reading/interpretation to do with little practical application (this comes with the subsequent auditor training, which I would strongly recommend). As-is, this course gave a great introduction to the standard and it was interesting to understand from the instructor that an acceptable quality management system does not necessarily need to be documented in reams of procedures!\
\
I found the delivery of the course was very well done. I enjoyed that it wasn't just PowerPoint based which I have often experienced with training, in fact PowerPoint wasn't used a lot at all. It was very interactive, which I find more useful for learning. Momcilo used different techniques to keep us engaged, and I think he was an excellent trainer. The course materials were very good, and I felt the course covered all topics in detail so that I feel comfortable carrying out Internal Audits in my own workplace. \
Very good course, well presented, knowledgeable tutor.  Thank you.   \
This was an excellent course that met my needs. Momcilo fostered an open, collaborative environment in which (I think) all the students felt comfortable and engaged. The greatest value in the course came from the practical exercises and roleplays.   The venue was fine, but it is a little isolated from the rest of the town leaving few options for eating out, the food/beverage provision on-site was rather expensive and patchy in quality.\
Momcilo was an excellent and memorable trainer, with comprehensive knowledge and a natural flair for teaching. The course itself was excellent, very good. However, the course was expensive. Therefore, in my opinion, a copy of the standard should have been included in the cost of the course, particularly given that the facilities were a little sparse. For example, lunch was just salad and the coffee was from a machine.\
\
 Kevin provided lots of examples from his own experience to put things into context. He was enthusiastic and prepared. Really enjoyed the course and its contents. This course will allow me to progress in my career. \
Momcilo made everyone attending at ease, was a very personable character and managed to make a course about Internal Auditing fun and enjoyable...who knew!\
\
The course was well balanced and gave a good insight into this new standard. Linking where possible to our current processes and experience help understand the size of the task ahead.\
Very informative and clear and the trainer was very flexible in tailoring the training to our needs.\
Very knowledgeable trainer; active participation was great (quiz cards etc) \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Personally I found the course to be a litle slow - however I have had audit experience so early stuff was probably aimed at novices.\
Really enjoyed this course from the start to the end. The trainer worked hard to appreciate what was best for the learners and delivered. It is one of the best Lead Auditors courses I have been on. Thank you. \
\
 wanted to say thanks to LRQA and Paul Smith for an exciting and at the same time very professional seminar. It's a pleasure to learn in such a stimulating atmosphere, and Paul has provided the ongoing support. He did a fantastic job of organising everything around the seminar! The friendly and informal atmosphere was perfect for revision and learning new information in regards to many aspects of new ISO 13485:2016 and auditing process. Excellent course and teaching. I enjoyed it, and it was so much more than I expected. \
\
The course was very enjoyable the course content had just enough info for the course objective.  The venue was easy to access and facilities were excellent.  The trainer explained everything fully and any questions that were asked were explained in a simplistic way to make the understanding easier.  The trainer also added humour and made us feel at ease which brought out the best in peoples ability to interact in group and individual work.\
sometimes the course was little too monotone, where a lot of listening was required on quite a heavy subject matter. Might be better at times to interject a few tasks/quizzes etc to keep the audience/attendees on their toes.\
\
\
\
\
\
It was very intensive to take in this amount of information in 2 days.\
\
Keith is a fantastic trainer, very helpful and knowledgeable.\
This really was a first rate course. The small number of 8 students + Liz's leadership + training skills, facilitated a high quality learning environment where I felt I could really learn + express myself with my peers, rather than an 'education to the masses approach.  I have come away feeling empowered + 'fired up' to focus on QMS in my workplace.  Thank you LRQA for facilitating my learning so well + making the steep learning curve comfortable + supported. Thank you Liz for your excellent course + being patient and supportive with my learning. \
\
Liz was a lovely and very engaging trainer. I found the course very interactive which made the content and delivery all the more valuable. \
Video of example audit was a little out of date.  There was allot of wasted time with the role plays when the trainer had to play the auditee - I wonder if there may be a more efficient way of doing this where the auditee doesn't have to be the trainer - perhaps the trainer could just do the observation/assessment.  The trainer had allot of experience but I felt at times they could have given the group more opportunities to share their experiences.\
Steve was open that this was the first time that he had run the course and therefore there were a few gaps in his understanding, however he took notes and promised to get back to us on answers.  I thought Steve was engaging and kept a good tempo to the training.  I nice balance between him talking and the team doing activities \
\
\
\
\
Trainer was excellent, kept the training interesting and engaging providing a clear and understandable delivery,\
I thought Kevin, presented the course very well - kept my attention throughout.\
The course tutor was very good.  The course was not at all death by powerpoint, it was interactive and enjoyable.\
In the presentation, slides where shown which were found very useful but these were not in the course material. This is a shame as this material can not be refereed back to in the future.\
\
Parts of the presentation were very fast paced (understandable because it was a one day course) but when learning from scratch like myself I struggled to understand what was being asked of me.  Saying that though, overall I was able to take some really valuable notes.\
Good mix of interactive sessions to reinforce the concepts\
\
\
\
\
I found the course easy to follow and comprehensive.  I liked the quizzes as it re-affirmed what we had been learning.  Trainer knew the subject very well.  It made it easier working over the two days as any questions or queries were answered without rushing so able to understand fully.\
\
\
\
The trainer was excellent\
Great course, the trainer made the subject more interesting than I expected.\
Lunch was not great. I would have liked a bit more basic knowledge around some of the changes. But overall very good.\
\
\
Excellent course, delivery excellent  Helped all attendees understand what is required and where we are at present \
\
\
\
\
I felt the course would benefit from being longer as some of the subjects covered in the afternoon felt slightly rushed.\
\
Found the course valuable and the trainer made it understandable. \
\
\
There were errors/mistakes in some of  the slides and written material\
\
Excellent Course\
\
This course was made superb by the knowledge and delivery of the facilatator. The subject was delivered through strength of persoality and experience as opposed to the drdgery Powerpoint. Auditing is a dry subject, but I would willingly partake again if Momcillo was out the front.\
\
As it was 'Internal Auditor Training' I think it would have been helpful (for me personally, at least) to have had some more examples of cross-referencing to internal work instructions, etc.  But that's nit-picking: the course was very good for checking that our procedures are up to standard/updated properly to be in accordance with AS9100 rev. D. \
Training material was not always up to date!  As it is ISO 13485 I expect more deep dive in the material to use this in the internal audit. I missed also the roll-play to use this in the auditor roll\
\
\
\
\
\
Hotel that I was booked in was very poor, cold food both dinner and breakfast times. When ordering room service they were unable to speak English so had to speak to two different people. My dinner was cold upon arrival, pudding of ice cream had melted. No Condiments with the meal. Breakfast buffet was cold and I went down at 7am, the start time. \
\
After speaking to a colleague that had previously attended the same course, he was able to perform an audit himself with the tutor, however we had to perform an audit as a group with the tutor. I didn't feel I got enough experience at auditing whilst on the course. On a positive note, great tutor and fantastic facilities!\
\
\
Very appreciated the contents and the way how it has been performed with a lot of interactive activities - my personal objective to understand differences and a clear understanding how to implement in a pratical way the clauses of ISO were fulfilled met as well as the refreshment about the internal audit\
\
\
\
VERY impressed with all aspects of the course. The trainer presented very well and made the whole experience relaxed whilst achieving the required results.  VERY WELL DONE  !!!!!!\
Needed to be more aimed at our Audit program\
\
\
\
While the course content provides useful information about auditing the new standard the delivery of the course was very poor. The trainer spent most of the day telling us about his life and achievements, which meant I learnt more about him than I did about the auditing the new standard. In addition we missed some exercises and were given the answers rather than talking through them. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Course well run and trainer very knowledgeable,kept it all relevant and everyone learnt from his experience/real life examples.\
\
\
\
I had hoped to get more answers and fewer 'details not relased'\
\
aq very well executed course with great interaction on all subject/topics \
\
\
I did not do the booking so I can not comment on these aspects\
\
Although the subject matter can be dry, Brian delivered the material very well. I also felt engaged throughout the course. Thank you\
\
Some of the slides culd have been bigger in the handouts to make them more legible for reference at a later date.  The style of delivery was very good, relaxed and informal whilst covering the course materials. I would prefer to use this style of approach in the future rather than page of slides to watch/read.\
\
\
I had more knowledge on the subject than initially thought however the tutor was able to simplify some of the material that was proving a bit problematic (the standard not the course material)\
\
Enjoyed the course, trainer was very knowledgeable and had an easy and relaxed delivery style. Was also flexible when asked to slightly change one of the exercises at our request.\
\
\
\
\
Dave was a great trainer.  He managed to make a subject that has the potential to be boring into an interesting and engaging training course.  His real life examples of audits he has undertaken was very helpful in understanding elements of the course.  It was a very enjoyable and interesting course.\
Brian was very helpful and worked at the speed at which the group progressed. Made understanding the course much easier.\
Mr Moncilo Kovacevic (our trainer) was one of the best trainer, whose lesson I had the pleasure to attend. He is extremely knowledgeable, available in giving us additional &useful documentation, flexible, with great didactic to ensure an effective knowledge transfer, very pleasant, keep a funny but effective working atmosphere. I was able to already apply some of the content of the course which I found extremely valuable and the competence of the trainer allowed me to understand & keep the course content.  I would absolutely recommend to attend this course (indeed another colleague had recommended me this course)\
The trainer used mainly the flip chart and hand written notes, some of which became confused and illegible.\
Having done lead audit training previously, I think this course was probably not the course I should have done (we chose the wrong one, we were looking for 9001:2015 conversion training!)  Course itself was very good, lots of interaction and discussion and well delivered. \
Not the most exciting subject but trainer did a good job of keeping everyone interested and explained the subject well.\
\
I didn't have any personal objectives because it was my first time on the course\
\
good course, the subject can be a bit dry but the trainer did a great job in keeping it relevant to Pandrol, very knowledgeable as well\
good course, the subject can be a bit dry but the trainer did a great job in keeping it relevant to Pandrol, very knowledgeable as well\
\
Disappointed with the lunch provision as many delays occurred. Food was no on time and kept being brought out and taken away. Didn't seem to be very well organised.\
Would have hoped for a bit more insight into at least the expected interpretations to be made by the assessors during the migration audits.\
\
Trainer knew his stuff, but I was less interested in memorising article and annex numbers, and more interested in the approach and the philosophy behind it, and the differences to the MDD and why. The tone was a little towards simply writing the regulation out in fewer words rather than getting at the bigger picture. But I definitely learnt things, it's just left me with questions. By the way, the 2 day in-depth course would not have helped me, as it would have been same approach simply in more detail.\
\
\
Pre work wasn't received until prior days afternoon.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very good insight into the new standard and put across very well\
the trainer was very engaging and his breadth of knowledge was second to none. the material was very helpful and laid out in an easy to follow manner.\
\
\
He explained everything in detail and made it interesting \
The trainer Kevin Collins has knowledge of the Chivas Business and the supply chain. He made the training interesting and relevant, he is well versed in auditing procedures and has worked in many industries. He made the course enjoyable.\
Kevin Collins was an excellent Trainer.  Kevin was very knowledgeable and delivered the training course in a friendly and relaxed manner which helped with a number of nervous candidates. Would definitely recommend / request Kevin to deliver any further training courses.\
These are combined comments from Robert Squires and Diane Carling   Overall after the training course we felt frustrated and that we hadn\'82\'c4\'f4t learnt what we had intended to at the beginning of the course.  Its hard to score the training material above.  The trainer did not stick to the course material and seemed reluctant to follow the handout and the slides which was frustrating.  The trainer gave his own opinion regarding what he felt were the important things to take away from the course, he then adapted each handout exercise, not sticking to the course content.  The trainers style was storytelling, there was around 80% of the course storytelling just from the trainer, often irrelevant to the course, full of opinion and with a disregard for others \'82\'c4\'fastories\'82\'c4\'f9 or points of view.  The environmental 'facts' relayed during the training course were not necessarily our experience of the truth.   If the delegates were struggling or working though the items the trainer would tell the answers rather than guide the delegate to understanding.  By the end of the day Robert had resorted to reading the course material myself and ignoring the trainer.  Many of the delegates reported the same frustration to us and all said they would need to make time after the course to read the training material to fully understand.    We felt the course was a waste of a day and was not value money. We were also embarrassed to have asked others to attend the course.  \
Very good course and venue, Thought there would have been some knowledge about the PAS1192:5  as it has overlap. \
This was not a good course.. The trainer had not bothered to learn about The Engineering Council as an organisation and therefore was unable to make any meaningful observations about challenges we might face in implementing the standard,  While this can be difficult, some effort would have been appreciated here, after all we are the customer. His personal training style was very dated and geared more towards demonstrating how much he knew rather than trying to transfer knowledge in a form that would help us.  He failed to ask anyone in the room what their role was and how they engaged with ISO in their day-to-day work. Instead we had lots of information about himself and his own career. His approach, in getting people to read out bits of the standard, was almost insulting and again, geared more towards showing how much he knew about the standard. What was clearly needed was an overview to help us to understand mandatory requirements and also guidance/best practice. These are distributed throughout the standard and surely the obvious approach is to pull out the relevant areas for discussion. There was no group work and no 'thinking exercises' for delegates.  He presented various business operational models that were over-complex, badly presented on flip-charts and overall unhelpful to the discussion.  His personal style was grating and at times rude. I could go on, but I think the point has been made - very, very disappointing.\
It would have been useful to have less focus on the previous edition and focus 100% of our time on the new version.  The point about the QMS and MS being integrated was well made.  For me personally a case study approach would help me understand the relevance of the ISO approach to our business.  \
Really enjoyable course, I felt that I learned a huge amount within the 5 days and will be able to practically demonstrate this in my workplace.\
I am very pleased that I have the opportunity to attend this training course and I will happily book another training course held by your company. Thank you.\
I scored the venue as 9 because there was only one toilet on the floor.\
Special Thanks to Momcilo for making this course very lively, interesting and interactive between the standard and his experience.\
The trainer managed to keep my attention on a subject we need to know about but often avoid!\
Momchilo is a fantastic instructor with huge amounts of enthusiasm and passion for quality management. He is full of joviality and practical instruction and should be comnended on his abilities throughout. \
Probably one of the best courses I have been on. Keith the trainer really knew his subject and his delivery was excellent.\
I think that is is unhelpful in the course description to suggest that people should attend an introductory course before this one. The trainer was excellent and has given me real confidence to direct clients towards LRQA for their certification needs. The venue was the best that I have ever experienced.\
A very useful course which provided a good overview of the standard with useful exercises around practical implementation. Keith was an excellent trainer with a good delivery style and approach. Refreshing to have a course that isn't 'death by PowerPoint'.\
The venue was good and the trainer was very helpful and explained the points well generally but any queries were answered in full and with as much detail as I needed to understand it.\
I OBTAINED A GREAT DEAL OF SPECIFIC INFORMATION, WHICH WAS IMPORTANT FOR ME.  COURSE MATERIALS WERE EXCELLENT. EASY TO USE. RELEVENT TO SUBJECT. \
\
\
The two days were rushed but that was more because of our constraints, not yours.\
The two days were rushed but that was more because of our constraints, not yours.\
The two days were rushed but that was more because of our constraints, not yours.\
Excellent course content and knowledge of course host. great venue for course. Host provided a very relaxed environment to learn in. Very professional as always.\
The course was very pleasurable and engaging, the tutor created a relaxed environment were audience participation felt welcome.\
\
\
\
Some of the slides referred to were not in the handouts/folders and the material had been cut down from two 2 day courses to one 2 day course. Not a fault of the trainer who did explain this at the start of the course.\
\
Thoroughly enjoyed the course and learnt about ISO27001 to be able to look at how the department works and what needs to be done to make sure this is built into our procedures.\
\
\
\
The course was well delivered by an engaging traininer with excellent knowledge of the subject area. The materials used during the training were of good quality.   The facility (hotel) used for the training and accomodation was poor, and considering the price I had expected something of a higher standard.   The course content was not 100% useful to me, however I think this is due to a mis-understanding in my own organisation about what would be trained.   As an addition comment, it would be nice to have more time practicing auditing itself e.g. during role play. I found the one 20 minute session too short. \
\
The course was presented very well by the trainer unfortunately the course notes had some glaring errors due to cut & paste from 9001 training package. The food was tolerable but considering the costs of the overall course this could have been better. \
There were a lot of mistakes in the course material but the trainer pointed out those to us and we made the necessary corrections on the days of training. There were also sections of the course material which needed to be printed with coloured ink to differentiate what needs to be highlighted however all were printed in black and white making it difficult to distinguish the differences.\
\
\
I really enjoyed the course and the trainer was excellent, very knowledgeable and helpful. The service provided by the hotel on the second day of the course was fairly slow at lunchtime. There were a lot of ladies who were on a pampering day but there only seemed to be 2 members of staff dealing with all those ladies and our course.\
A very useful and enlightening course. It was interesting to have the opportunity to work with other course attendees. I thought this approach to the training was very helpful. \
Very beneficial to what I required. The trainer, Dave ('Whitey') was excellent - kept my attention throughout and explained everything thoroughly. Found it very useful to have the audit practice session.\
\
Fabulous course, the trainer was amazing. He engaged all people in the room and ensured everyone was able to contribute. Without his input all voices would not have been heard.\
An excellent course. I can honestly say it is the best quality of course that I have been on over the many years of course going. Our trained Liz Mansfield was very good. Her knowledge of the ISO9001(2015) standard was incredible, Liz' ability to put this over and test our knowledge was very thorough whilst remaining a very enjoyable experience. In comparison to the delivery of other LRQA courses, it is obvious that Liz has put in a lot of additional work to ensure that her delivery is interactive, interesting and informed from her experience of auditing. \
\
\
\
Booking process was really slow and it's hard to get answer on timely manner. When I called to pay with my bank card it also took all day since the system was crashing and the provider.  Course materials were old version and not update according to the slides.  The course trainer was very good and achieved what I wanted from this course. I can compare to the trainings I had on 14001 and 9001 and this was by far the best in teaching and learning the standard.\
Very well organised and run\
n/a\
10 hours per day plus evening work over four days is not an effective method of delivering learning. I felt unable to assimilate the information presented as there was no time available to review work covered each day. This led to feelings of stress and exhaustion. The trainer was excellent and made the course bearable.\
The trainer was very good. Her continual assessment  worked very well and the group really connected with her making the experience a very pleasurable one.\
I think Momcello did a truly great job. We all understand that it is not an easy job to make an internal auditor course exciting or fun, but it was actually fun and close to life. Great job!\
\
The course was run in a very professional manor, the trainer tailored the course for our needs and our level of understanding. I would highly recommend this course to other quality engineers.\
Liz was an excellent trainer. Her delivery style was personable and it was obvious she knew her subject matter very well.  The training facilities were excellent as well.  The only criticism I would have is a lack of visitor parking. If this could be addressed then I think this would really make LRQA an outstanding training venue.\
I was OK and obtained a parking space, however there were some issues over the number of available parking places for candidates, although this was made clear on the pre-course information i would expect having paid to attend a course that parking was provided at the venue. I would not have been too happy if on arrival i would have had to go searching for a place top park the car. \
Facilities were marred only by the Parking.\
\
Liz was a fantastic trainer, very knowledgable and kept the course very interactive. There was a lot of information to take in and her style helped to put it into real life situations and therefore hopefully have added benefit. Unfortunately the attitude of the receptionist could have been a little more approachable, when booking into the course on the day they weren\'82\'c4\'f4t overly accommodating in terms of details on parking etc, with one unfortunate incident where by despite explaining where I had parked and then originally confirming it would be fine, at the dinner break the receptionist was waiting directly outside the toilet facilities to tell me to straighten my car, it wasn\'82\'c4\'f4t a request it was a demand and did not appreciate the invasion of my privacy. My vehicle had one tyre on the white line not encroaching into another space and therefore was unsure of the problem. When I returned to the building she insisted on badgering me again about the parking and then told me \'82\'c4\'fawell you shouldn\'82\'c4\'f4t be parked there anyway\'82\'c4\'f9 to which I reminded her she had advised it was fine to park there earlier that morning. It would be my suggestion you increase the visitor parking or make spaces bigger to allow for larger vehicles. \
Left the Booking Process question blank as i did not book the course\
I found the course well run, extremely insightful and a valuable experience.  I would like to add that one of the delegates was very disruptive and disrespectful at times, which delayed some of the timings of the course. This also made group work difficult, especially with only a total of 5 delegates on the course. Although the trainer dealt with this person very well to try and neutralise the situation. The delegate was Bryan who works in the construction industry, I understand that he intends to attend another of your courses. \
The trainer was extremely engaging to all members of the group and made what could be a dull subject incredibly interesting. Very knowledgeable on the subject and able to provide many examples and relate matter to our roles in the NHS. The only possible suggestion I would make, would be to base the course more around health subjects, or healthcare audits when doing training in the NHS/healthcare environment.\
Fantastic, highly recommend Tim as a course trainer\
Course was excellent and break out sessions were good. Came away with a greater understanding of the changes. \
The only issue for me was that it felt a little compressed and an extra day would have helped this\
\
Tim Sparey was a highly motivated trainer who was able to change the course requirements on the fly to ensure that our objectives were met. Tim's delivery was superb and made it a very worthwhile session. \
The training is very professional, but I think it could work better if it would be extended over 3 or 4 days, so we can have time to do more practice than theory.\
\
Brilliant - informative and good venue. Great tutor.\
The trainer was excellent, he delivered the information in various formats to keep you engaged and was very knowledgeable on the subject. \
\
The training course was very engaging, and informative. Dave knew the content really well through his vast experience and was keen to impart that to us. I especially found the role-play practise audit exercise very useful. \
Trainer was knowledgeable had a wealth of experience to go into when going over the materal\
Informative and relaxed course, able to discuss topics around the table as an open forum \
The interactive exercises were good and the trainer was informative.\
The training was very useful and Paul made the two days very enjoyable. \
\
\
The material provided will be useful for reference and to refresh before conducting future audits. The focus on PRIMAL left a memorable approach to audit any process.  \
Really excellent course with great delivery to retain interest however, I think day 1 was a little too heavy and although I retained information when quizzed on day two, I think I could have retained a lot more information if we had slowed down a little, had a non-working lunch break and just finished on time instead of early.  Day two was light compared to day 1 so just needs balancing a little better.  I would recommend this course, though it was great.\
\
No information or course material was provided prior to the course.  We only knew where the course was no timings etc, were provided.  We were at a disadvantage to the other attendees from the start.\
The trainer and course were excellent.  Unfortunately myself and my colleague did not receive the pre-course material I have given it a low score as there was a test on this material on day one. Even though it was open book, it put myself and my colleague at a disadvantage and under additional stress.  As we also did not receive any information about course times or the content for the two days, we weren't aware of the test so didn't chase anything up.  I scored the booking process lower as the issue occurred between the booking and attendance process. Although booking onto the course online was a simple process.\
\
\
\
The Trainer Paul was very good at relaying the course detail over to myself and being able to understand the content. This course was designed for people who had already completed a LRQA course but I had not done this, but with the trainers ability to give relevant information that I was able to understand was a great help.  \
\
\
Notes folder is useful, however many spelling errors within.   Would be useful to have case studies within the folder illustrating how ISO45001 would be applied, as well as the document itself.  \
The course was well structured, informative and well delivered. Albert Fessey, the trainer, was a great teacher and gave lots of excellent real world scenarios to go with the theory. \
\
\
Excellent course, thanks to Brian.\
Would have preferred to have kept the ISO45001 standard that was provided and a clear set of examples of the types of evidence to look for during audit.\
good course, enabling good interaction with attendees.\
well run and informative course that fully met my objectives re-enforced my existing knowledge and expanded my understanding of iso 14001 2015\
\
\
\
I thought the course was very good, the trainer was excellent. I would have given it 5 stars if the price had been more competitive. I think \'ac\'a3525 for a days training is steep, especially when you run the a 5 day lead auditors course at \'ac\'a31645 and you gain a qualification/skill.\
Now this is outside of your control, it helped that the delegates engage with the presenter/other delegates\
\
Only received my joining instructions at 12:00 on the day before training.\
A course developed specifically for BSENISO17025 would have been useful and as it affects all testing and calibration laboratories it would be worthwhile.\
Scale of 0-10 where 10 is best.  Some of the slides had too much text on them.\
The facilities were amazing\
Marek was excellent and very intuitive to different styles of learning that really helped, he picked up on the fact I was struggling and offered great advice.\
Booking process was painful to say the least. Facility was good however no heating for 2 days (with snow on the ground outside) and toilets left a lot to be desired\
\
\
Great course, very enjoyable & highly recommend the trainer.\
A very good course that is well structured. The way the course is tought allows for retention of the knowledge\
The trainer was excellent and configured the course to meet the needs of everyone including myself however if it were not for that then I wouldn't have been satisfied. The course was beyond what was needed by me and didn't match my need. The venue was OK - the food was variable and the choices odd (all spicy dishes on the same day for example). 2 of 4 days the lunch was good, and on the other 2 days poor. I think the venue lacked security. It would be possible for anyone to walk in for a coffee, for example, or to carry out a robbery.\
\
\
The course itself was thoroughly good and met my expectations. What was disappointing was that I failed to receive any of the pre-course materials making it much harder for me to participate on the first day, as well as having limited information about the start times and venue. \
Momcilo was incredibly knowledgeable and helpful with any questions we had during the course.\
Brilliant course - pace just right - - not 'death by PowerPoint', good interactive learning\
Booking process is marked only average as this this reflects my experience with our internal system rather than the interaction with LRQA.  Facilities was slightly spoiled by an intermittent fire alarm on the second morning - this was due to testing but the hotel failed to inform our instructor beforehand.\
I found the training engaging and interactive which really helped me to stay focused and enjoy learning and understanding about the new regulations.\
\
The course was interesting, interactive and the trainer was  very professional, proficient and suitably experienced.\
The payment prosedures were incufficient. Invoice ouside UK was not possible, took long time to verify the payment. \
Overall course was great and trainer was very knowledgeable, would heavily recommend.\
\
\
The MDR has huge implications for companies like ours and given it's complexity and size it is essential that we have a good starting point to allow our interpretation to begin.  The course left us with a good overview of the requirements and context for our products.  A particular challenge for us is that the majority of our products are single use medicines (albeit delivered using novel mechanisms) and therefore governed by the Medicinal Products Directive. Understanding where one regulation starts and ends is a challenge.\
Course delivery was clear, and tailored to our needs and level of knowledge.  Materials were good, with useful interactive activities and quizzes.  A good overall introduction to the MDR, much appreciated from a test design perspective.\
As a sponsor of the course my comments above are neutral. I did not attend the course, however I understand it was very well received.\
Some good information from the trainer not reflected in the training pack\
\
excellent course with excellent Trainer. \
\
\
The afternoon sessions felt a little rushed to try and complete the necessary modules, this may have been because the trainer felt the interactive  group work done in the morning was more productive\
I got what I needed out of the day , the course was delivered to a high standard . The day passed by quickly , which is testament to the pace that was kept by the trainer , was engaging and informative throughout. \
\
I had basic knowledge of this topic so this course broadened my general knowledge and also the requirement changes on going.\
I had basic knowledge of this topic so this course broadened my general knowledge and also the requirement changes on going.\
Our trainer Paul Smith delivered a fantastic course.   As i'm very new to Auditing he managed to make a very in depth, heavy subject digestible. Which did a newcomer the world of good. The course materials were very good, however it was the delivery of the trainer that made the experience very worthwhile. Would definitely recommend the company, especially Paul Smith!\
Paul was very knowledgeable and kept the group engaged. the pace was good and time frame was kept to.  \
Excellent training course, informative and thorough, Trainer engagement was great and adapted excellently to delegate training levels and requirements. \
\
The only improvement I can suggest is to have more of the technical information relating to the case study sent out earlier for example the legislation reference document and perhaps some guidelines around what an evidence document should contain. \
\
Venue, trainer and general facilities were excellent.\
An very positive experience from my point of view. The course was well structured and delivered expertly. Our trainer Keith was very knowledgeable and very supportive, understanding everyone's own learning style and support them accordingly.      The pre course notes were very well structured and help me no end to prepare for the course.   Thank you for delivering such a good course. \
\
\
\
\
Trainer's communication skills and knowledge about the subject are excellent. The way he conducts the sessions and engage the attendants is outstanding.\
Excellent all round! Thank you\
The delegates on my course had varying levels of both knowledge and experience, and also came from a wide range of industry sectors, which was reflected in what they said they wanted to get from it. The trainer was very flexible and worked with the training content to ensure that nobody was left out or left behind and that everyone's needs and expectations were met. I enjoyed the course immensely.\
\
Excellent course well delivered\
\
Steve was a great trainer, very engaging with the class and full of energy!\
The trainer for the course was excellent.  Due to his wide and varied experience was able to bring to life, through various examples, a subject that could have been a 'very dry'.  \
Kevin was a very helpful trainer who brought the training to life with real life and practical examples.\
Keith presented a well structured course that was delivered in a highly professional manner. His extensive knowledge of the subject was evident at all times, answering all questions in a clear and concise manner.\
\
I found the course to be extremely simple and not very in depth. I thought that the trainer stuck to the materials and did not adequately move away to answer specific questions. the tests, quizzes and practical exercises were skipped entirely or the answers were given out and then we were told to give ourselves full marks on the paperwork to 'tick a box'. This course may have been helpful to someone with no auditing experience, I was hoping to get some more insight into the requirements of 9001:2015 but this wasn't really achieved. disappointing.\
I did not receive the joining instructions and course pre-reading material until I prompted the administrators on the afternoon before the course started.\
Burger's were cold at lunchtime on second day, no toilet paper in the gents toilets - location could have been better but the course and trainer were excellent\
Course was dragged out over three days when it could have been condensed \
Course was well presented by a very knowledgeable and experienced tutor.\
\
I really enjoyed this course. It was such a shame it was cut short by the weather as the site closed early. Thanks to the trainer who managed to condense this into the time we had . I have rated 8 for personal objectives only because we couldn't complete the full course due to adverse weather conditions. \
Brain is a top notch trainer and the course was excellent.  I have already recommended it to a colleague of mine.\
The course was very well put together, with excellent notes & materials.  The trainer was very knowledgeable and well able to impart that knowledge to a varied room of people.\
Course overall was very good. Only thing that could have been improved was the lunch. The mini burgers on day 2 were warm at best.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Peter was helpful through the course and provided valuable information to help me going forward.  Peter also was super professional and this was evident when dealing with someone who was some what challenging at times \
\
My pre-coursework was sent to the wrong address but was quickly sent to the correct one. I am still awaiting my results\
\
\
\
Steve's engaging and energetic personality made this course, I wasn't expecting to get as much out of it as I did.  \
Great venue, easy transport access, staff polite and welcoming. Trainer, Liz, very knowledgeable and able to explain how to integrate system into our own company.                                                                                                    \
Steve was an excellent presenter, good relaxed style but able to keep everyone engaged over the 2 days of training. \
At one point the trainer commented that a previous trainee had ranked him one star. Since your form does not state which way the scales go, that is understandable. \
unfortunate my Pre course pack didn't arrive in the post, and therefor I found the start of the course a little more difficult than maybe I should have..\
Thought the trainer was really good. Thought the venue was really good (the food was really top notch also).\
Very good and engaging trainer, subject knowledge only rated slightly lower as some questions could not be answered. However, I imagine this is only due to the fact that not everything is known about the MDR at present.\
\
From someone with no knowledge of Quality Management I have left with a lot more knowledge, however the course did jump around a bit. Personally I would have found it easier if we worked methodically through the manual as my notes now jump all over the place making them harder to find when I need them.\
This is a good course but very intensive. With a 10 hour day and then evening work to complete it is hard going when combined with the amount of information needed to be absorbed and understood. Could some of the content be delivered by webinar ahead of the classroom sessions?\
I found the course too basic for my needs, however, I have been in the industry for 30 plus years therefore, I do have some experience on the subject matter.  The reason I attended was to satisfy a requirement of LRQA and in support of a customer who is LRQA registered to ISO 13485.  It was a point raised during an initial stage 1 audit, in which I was unable to demonstrate I had the competence to act as a independent consultant to my client, even though the company was recommended for certification.  It seems to be a tick-box exercise.\
\
Our Trainer Mr Albert Fessey is the best trainer I have experienced, he delivered the course superbly and in a way that really stuck in my head. An excellent trainer for an excellent course.\
\
\
\
\
\
I was expecting to learn a bit more about the standard itself and also there were some items which we did not cover which appeared in the test. Otherwise the trainer was enthusiastic and interesting\
A very thorough course delivered in a methodical and simplistic way\
\
I felt as a beginner, the course was a bit too advanced and rushed. I understand time constraints, but the task at the end where you had to show your knowledge you\'82\'c4\'f4d learnt, could have been handled better.   I was using he skills I had been taught, but not once had I been told you can\'82\'c4\'f4t audit against a draft procedure, so I spent the whole time doing that. When the tutor came to check, he just focussed on the fact we hadn\'82\'c4\'f4t used the correct material to audit against, and that really made me lose confidence with internal auditing. A shame, because before that, I thought I could have done a sufficient job.\
Good course, very informative.  Brian the trainer kept everyone on the course engaged and focused. Brian was well mannered, engaging and very knowlegable.\
\
course was specifically tailored to our needs and delivered in a productive and well received style.\
course materials not greatly used, but trainers knowledge and delivery style was excellent. met our needs more than adequately.\
course materials looked fine, although they weren't used a great deal. this was not to the detriment of the training.\
Appreciate it is difficult to achieve all things for all people on this subject.\
Overall this was a good course, the booking process was a nightmare though, I was billed for the course 3 times (letters to my home demanding payment) even though I paid upfront, and while the course was good I would have to seriously consider if I would want to use LRQA again, to this end my answers above are purely based on the two days at Leeds as opposed to the overall experience.\
Content was great, although I would have preferred a hard copy too. \
An excellent course based on the principals of ISO9001. Very good trainer and I would highly recommend to colleagues.  In respect of the venue, this was also excellent. The only recommendation I would have in this respect is for slightly better signage as this is slightly unclear upon arrival from the road.\
This course has delivered exactly what I expected and wanted.  The trainer who delivered this course was outstanding. He kept the whole group focused and made all the work relevant and engaging.    The facilities, though on the whole where of a very high quality, presented some issues with regards to room bookings and refreshment timings that slightly hindered training. This was minor and offered as an observation for continuous improvement and not as a complaint.  \
Unsure if we booked the wrong course, but I found it to be more of a refresher training on ISO 13485 rather than focusing on the changes in the latest standard which we hoped to receive. \
\
\
Course could have done with more detail on Environmental aspects and how to audit against these as this is the main difference within the standard from the other standards.\
As I attended the course for the week I was not impressed by the standard of food.  There was a very poor selection and for this standard of hotel a limited menu. \
\
Thanks for this great course\
Use of Adobe Connect software was somewhat problematic, even from a direct Internet connection from the office. It is a resource intensive application that could have been replaced by a Webex.\
\
I would recommend the implementation of course literature to read and study before hand. The amount of material can be difficult to absorb within one day, and I feel a head start would provide a greater interaction.\
This course was brilliantly delivered by an extremely knowledgeable tutor, however not all of it was applicable to my role. Nonetheless it was enjoyable and I feel that I have benefited from participation. \
I would recommend the implementation of course literature to read and study before hand. The amount of material can be difficult to absorb within one day, and I feel a head start would provide a greater interaction.\
I was extremely impressed with the knowledge of the trainer and the method of delivery was very good. \
\
Excellent course, tailored to the attendees requirements.  Pity the previous course was cancelled and I had to travel much further to attend\
\
\
Fantastic trainer on the day with great subject knowledge.\
Generally the course was good Perhaps needed more examples of actually carrying out an audit  perhaps doing an audit on a fictitious company would have helped improve my learning and understanding\
Great course led with knowledge and much closer to a conversation rather following a programme.  also liked the variety of ways exercises were handled\
The trainer did a fantastic job of finding out what attendees wished to get out of the course and delivering a course to meet those requirements.  He was also incredibly knowledgeable in the subject and could answer any questions.  The only observation to think about would be the way he referred to top management.  ISO9001:2015 is about engagement of, and ownership by, top management, but the way he referred to them reinforced a 'them and us' stance. This was a very worthwhile course and has given me lots to think about for our company.\
\
Found it a little confusing referring back to the old standard because I had never seen the 2008 version but otherwise very good.\
\
\
The trainer was excellent, getting all the information across and keeping the course interesting. \
Great course, delivered well. Trainer was very knowledgeable and easy to approach with questions. Very happy.\
\
If the manual had been issued a week before then a greater awareness would have mean't that the course could of been condensed\
Really enjoyed the course. Trainer made the work and the learning as fun as possible and kept everyone's attention well. The hotel was great. I really enjoyed my stay. Everyone was very polite and happy to help.  It was great that the course was a good mixture of written work and also activities which helped information stick into my head and keep me focused. It was the right balance of listening and carrying out activities. Most courses are boring and you just sit an listen and you switch off very quick. I also found the folder we were given well laid out and had all the information required.  The trainer also brought up some really good examples which really helped with the understanding of what we were learning. \
The course was good and I left feeling I had gained the required knowledge to perform the task \
Trainer was excellent, best I've had. \
My pre coursework pack was sent to the wrong address which I emailed about and did receive it via an email but my standard only turned up after the course. Momcello was very good at getting everyone engaged.\
\
The course went on until fairly late 1830 and no late evening refreshments, until day 4, made the afternoon session quite long.\
The course was spot on. Just what I needed.\
The trainer was very knowledgeable and had time for all questions and queries the group had. He related it to real life scenarios, which helped with application of the principles. \
The course was great and not too intense. For the amount of information that I attained from the course I fell it was very well managed. \
I felt the course content could have fitted within a single day. \
\
One of the most likeable trainers I've had the pleasure of meeting \
Some materials that were presented were not available in the notes - could those please be distributed separately?\
\
Very well presented and set-out course. The pace and content was just right and our instructor had the ability to impart knowledge without you even realising you were learning!!\
\
\
\
\
\
\
I did not book the course so cannot comment on that. Would have liked the confirmation with agenda and pre-course information earlier. Facilities good but room was a bit cold and although we were told the fire alarm would go off we were not told what time so were not confident that it was just a test when it did go off.\
Thoroughly enjoyed the course, that is down to the our trainer and his fantastic knowledge of the course subject\
\
I feel the training course content should have contained more diagrams and illustrations to depict the ISO 2015 transition.  A smart whiteboard /monitor would have enhanced the training experience and provided possible screen shots of the diagrams and models developed by the instructor on the paper flip charts. \
Good range of Discussion , Trainer kept the course on track with good insightful comments \
\
Although it is freely available on the internet i would have liked to have seen a copy of both 9001-2008 & 9001-2015 comparisons on the day, this would have been easier to view rather than just relying on the lecturer telling us the changes/mocements. Also a highlighted ISO document of what records are mandatory / not mandatory. A selection of the lecturers whiteboard notes. Apart from that the course was a joy to attend and the lecturer was superb. \
There were a few minor issues with the training room equipment, but to no real detriment to the course.   The course itself was excellent and I was impressed how the trainer knew the subject inside and out and could directly quote the standard. Examples given and exercises were to the point and got us thinking for ourselves. Enjoyed the course a lot.\
My personal objective was 'how to perform an Effective Contract Execution Assessment'. Actually doing a CEA was not really covered. The instructor did say 'We are already doing it well'. Thus most of the workshop was a refresher, of how to do good Audits.\
The course was good, but rambled a bit at times. Time mgt could have been better.\
\
Momcillo was superb, his content knowledge and advise was second to none, was a very worthwhile course. The food at the venue was ok but not a great deal of choice. The builders were on site for the first day of the course which was quite off putting at times.\
\
\
\
Tutor was excellent and ensured we were not only getting the tuition needed but also meeting my own goals. Feedback daily helped me understand things I needed to address.\
I must say I was expecting a long 3 days before the start of the course. However, Momcilo made the course very worthwhile, interesting and thought provoking, encouraging me to look into how we work within our company. next time I look into a course through LRQA I would definitely be trying to find out if Momcilo is the trainer and where possible book onto that course.\
Trainer knowledge was good but difficult to cope with specific business related content of some of the questions being raised at the level some personnel wanted. Not a criticism as the course covered what was required and the range of business / sectors this topic covers is vast. . \
\
Excellent course with specific content and Momcilo was a great teacher who gave clear examples to help with the understandings.\
\
\
\
Training venue wasn't great. Building works going on - drilling, hammering etc was rather distracting. Food OK but not enough water on each table. Not enough cakes at break time to go around each person.\
I had a bad cold and awful cough but attended the training anyway despite not feeling well.  The trainer asked me to move to the back of the room as my cough was `distracting` him.\
\
\
\
Very happy with the training, information I received and especially how the training was delivered by Momcilo. Course was very interesting with a good interaction between all participants. Feel the benefit of this training already.\
To improve the corse more emphasis on personal work rather than team work. In many practical situations auditing would be alone and not in a team. So both situations should be included.\
\
Although on the instructions there are numbered parking spaces these are impossible to get to unless you go around the back of the building and you can't actually find them driving around the car park. I therefore had to park at the stations (\'ac\'a312!) and walk back to the offices.  On arrival I was then informed how to get to the spaces and that I could actually park anywhere.  This was extremely inconvenient, there should be more information on the details received to explain this.\
The course was excellent and I have already recommended it to colleagues.\
Would be useful to have course notes electrontically\
Trainer delivered the course in such a way that made it very interesting and applicable to our needs\
Some of the slides that we shown within the powerpoint presentation wern't included in the course materials folder.  \
I would have liked to explore the clauses in more detail.\
The training was very long and I do not feel that it needed two whole days. It was very informative and interesting but think this could have been done in smaller chunks and less time.\
\
\
My relatively low marks are as much a representation of the fact that I am not entirely sure what I was getting out of the day. I expected it to be more of a Staffline focus rather than the generic offering that was presented.\
Learned a lot on the 3 day course. Trainer was great. Structured really well and kept everyone engaged. The only thing that was missing was our own copy ISO9001, 14001. I understand this costs money but it would be useful to go along with my course notes.  Also, we did not get our folder with handouts until the 2nd day. We got print outs no problem but still, worth commenting on.\
I was a bit nervous about attending with who our company put me with as they have really good knowledge of the Standard, whereas I do not. But I thought that the training was delivered such that I did not feel out of my depth.  \
\
\
\
The course was very informative and worthwhile. \
\
However, I would question the need of location given the knock on cost to the customer!\
Good course, well structured. Only issue was that the projector played up a bit in the afternoon.\
\
The course content was good, I thought the trainer was good and the delivery met the expectations I had, it was interesting when the trainer asked senior management knowledge of the contents of the Env policy.... overall though I thought it was good.\
\
\
\
\
\
Hotel was nice.\
\
\
Gary was a great trainer and made the content easy to understand.  The course has set me up to a point where I am able to conduct my own internal audit.\
excellent course, Gary was very knowledgeable and managed to cater the content to appeal to all levels of the delegates  quality experience without losing anyone's attention or interest\
\
I am new to LRQA, although the organisation I work for is not. I was asked to find out about some training for staff. My experience of this part of the process was really poor. It wasn't easy to find anything on the website so I emailed LRQA. Responses were very slow and not particularly helpful.  Once bookings had been made (by a colleague because I was new to my organisation and didn't have any finance set up), I didn't receive any emails from LRQA, yet LRQA clearly had my email address as it was printed on the sheet that we were asked to check while on the course.  Apart from these negatives, the course itself was really good and I would recommend it. The hotel was a bit tired but the food was excellent.\
Loved that the course was so relaxed, and that there were only 8 participants - much less intimidating than a larger class. I had zero knowledge of internal auditing and I the course did seem to presume I had a small amount of knowledge or experience, but that was clearly our fault as I hadn't been prepared in advance by being shown examples of audits.\
\
The course was well presented and the only downside is that it was not a 'popular' course as there are only for attendees for which we had all been moved from a previous date due to low take-up.  More attendees would have allowed a broader discussion to identify 'potentially' areas of further concern on the implementation of the new standard.\
\
\
Well structured course delivered by a confident and competent instructor. Delivered what was required in an understanding format. \
The trainer was so knowledgeable about the course content that he was never stumped by any of our questions or observations. He made the course material accessible and even entertaining for the group. The best training I've attended in 10 years.\
\
The course and the trainer were both excellent, I really connected with the trainer, he was supportive, encouraging and very approachable. Albert is really a credit and an asset to LRQA. I am sorry to say that I was very disappointed in the venue, my room was absolutely freezing with no heating on at all (in January !!!), it took 3 complaints at reception before they eventually moved me to a different room. The chairs in the training room were uncomfortable. The food was monotonous, poor quality and over priced, the \'ac\'a328 budget does not go far when they are charging \'ac\'a327 for rib eye steak and chips. crab risotto \'ac\'a315 and the crab is out of a tin, It is very poor that there is not even a soft drink option that can be included in the \'ac\'a328 meal budget. Service in the restaurant was poor, staff were not polite or friendly. I am sure that I will attend further LRQA courses in the future, I would never stay or eat at the Cambridge Belfry again.\
I found the pace of the course very slow, it could be done in one day Trainer knew his stuff but the delivery didn't suit my learning style\
\
The trainer and training were both excellent, it was enjoyable to have some humour injected into what could otherwise have been a very dry subject. The course materials do contain a number of grammatical/spelling mistakes that were a bit distracting at times. The venue was unfortunately the worst part of the course as the food available was variable in quality, particularly at lunchtime, and though I had no issues with my room, I'm aware that a number of the other course participants had problems and received less than fantastic customer service.\
Great trainer. Good sense of humor which made the course enjoyable.\
\
Excellent two day course. Keith was absolutely brilliant, really knowledgeable and personable. He didn't seem to judge the fact I wasn't as clued up on everything as I possibly could have been and took the time to explain things in a little more depth, with lots of really good scenarios and examples. Thank you so much Keith.\
Have received feedback from several of the attendees that they found the course interesting and found the trainers delivery of what could be a potentially dry subject to be very good and maintained the interest of the participants.\
The hotel room was cold, radiator broken  in bedroom and the food was cheap quality and nasty  The trainer made the course fun but still detailed and comprehensive, I was worried the course would be really boring but his humour made it ore enjoyable\
\
The course was well structure and informative.  The course instructor was very knowledgeable and used non-technical examples to explain processes and points.  The friendliness and humor of the instructor meant that the participants were relaxed and engaged and did not become bored throughout the course. \
\
\
The content was aimed at the correct level with trainers ability to provide anecdotal examples in order to validate the key points.\
Overall i found the course to be very informative and enjoyable. The training was also delivered to a very high standard. \
I personally thought the course could have been longer. it was presented really well, but not a lot of content.\
Trainer made a potentially dry subject interesting\
The trainer was knowledgeable, put everyone attending at ease and took as much time as required to deliver , discuss and answer questions raised.\
\
MY only comment would have been the option to reduce the amount of training materials. Whilst I understand the desire to give each individual person a LRQA branded folder with inserts, when it comes to training in-house (as our session was), the overall majority of attendees thought it was wasteful. Internally we have scanned in one complete copy of a folder and saved it to our resource network drive so anyone can access the material and reacquaint themselves. \
Dave White was going to email me some additional slides - which I haven't received.\
I came to this subject with a very low base knowledge, the fact that I passed is very much due to the trainer acknowledging my lack of experience and ensuring he presented and tailored his material in such a way that I was able to take it on board and undertstand the detail\
\
This was a very useful course and Dave is an excellent trainer.\
\
The materials and the homework was fine and useful, but I think it would be necessary to include some scrap paper more to take notes of the exercises that we are doing at class or to take some notes of the teacher. However, the teacher, kindly gave it to me some paper from the office as my request when I ask to them. My thoughts is just these should come with the course included. \
I wanted to attend the course to increase my confidence when doing internal audits.  The course was presented in a fun and informative manner and appeared to have met all (6) attendees requirements.  Would have no hesitation in recommending the course and trainer\
\
\
On arrival, rather than being greeted with a smile, I was asked rudely where I had parked. After a stressful transit in on an icy day I felt very put off. I was told that, despite having a visitors badge and paying thousands of pounds for a 2 day course, I could not park in a visitors space. A spare which was then free all day. Instead, I drove to the station, parked for \'ac\'a312 for the day, and walked back along the icy path which was treacherous and didn't set me up for a positive start to the day. Add to that that the instructor didn't give me his name (although he was otherwise welcoming) the start of the course was very negative. The instructor was very knowledgeable, however he mostly reeled off numbers and references, showing of his knowledge. I didn't feel that we actually spend time understanding and interpreting the standard. I was really disappointed with the content. Especially that we weren't actually given a copy of the standard until very late morning. In short, the structure of the course wasn't suitable for me.  The catering was of a low standard, and inconsistent, some days the afternoon snack was 6 pieces of popcorn, other times it was a piece of cake and fruit. On the third day of my course, biscuits and fruit weren't replaced, fruit was frustrating as this was the only healthy thing on offer. The standard of sandwiches etc was poor and so I brought my own lunch each day. I was only asked if I had allergies or special requirements at lunchtime, not earlier in the day.   As Lloyds have a monopoly on this type of training, they are in a position to deliver real excellence, which I hope I experience if I visit again.\
NIL\
\
Very enthusiastic trainer, he made the whole course engaging and enjoyable.\
\
\
\
The room was not adequately heated.\
\
\
\
The parking could be better\
no clear instrcution of car parking arrangements were given. Rude reception staff in first day\
Thanks for taking care of us all so well, it was a very insightful course in a great location. The tutor handled all the questions and challenges really well. \
Course was very informative. Trainer very knowledgeable and provided us with a good understanding as to how the new ISO 9001 revision relates to our organisation. \
The only comment I would make is with regards to Parking. It was an issue with the amount of spaces required.\
\
\
\
\
The course was very informative, the trainer's knowledge and approach was exceptional. \
Trainer was extremely knowledgeable  of the standard avoiding the use of three/four letter jargon. Kept it relatively simple and straight forward on a subject matter that is generally boring to most. My eyes didn't glaze over at any time. I wish the ISO standard handbook was available, albeit NOT at the quoted cost of \'ac\'a3190 each though. A handy document to have as a reference aid.....\
The Trainer ensured the course was interesting while still covering all the subject matter.\
Experienced auditor and trainer.  Enjoyable, well presented and targeted course. \
There is a lot to take in and remember that's why on some you didn't score max. I just feel on top of my other work I can't remember everything that I am meant too. Course very good and trainer was perfect and very helpful.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Good course. Friendly and knowledgeable trainer.\
\
I really enjoyed the course, the venue was perfect and we were very well looked after. The two course lunch was very enjoyable! I joined the course to learn internal auditing techniques as I am new to my role as Compliance Specialist. I internally audit the Customer Service & Operations area of Vodafone for both ISO20K & ISO9K and working collaboratively with our Quality manager for ISO9K. I found the course really useful in understanding the audit procedures for other types of organisations.\
\
\
The course was presented in a way that focused on potential issues for our company and did not spend unnecessary time on those parts we had already covered in our registration.  I found the course information was very relevant to understanding our future requirements and actions required to meet the new standard.\
Appreciated the efforts to warm up the subject; but all felt a bit laboured to start with. Covered all the subject well however. Course handouts were fine, but large folder seemed a bit over the top :)\
The course was originally set for four days. We managed to get through the material in 2 days, which seemed plenty long enough.\
excellent and knowledgeable trainer who was able to tailor the course the fit both the time available and the needs of the participants. Thank you very much \
\
\
Brian delivered the course exceptionally well and was clear and concise.\
The training materials that we could take away were a bit blurry but this was explained at the start of the course but it was difficult to read them at times - projected slides were easier to read - the 2 trainers who ran the course were excellent in their knowledge and the presentation of the course - it was a good idea to have 2 people and not just 1 - it was also a healthy attendance and made for interesting discussions with regard to specific situations in a company - my only negative was the start time - 9am was very tight for me - having caught the 6.13am train to Marylebone I thought I had left plenty of time to get to the venue using train, tube and then walking - I arrived at 9.20am - which delayed the start for everyone - 9.30am may have been better and I wouldn't have minded staying till 5.30pm to miss the commuters as my train home wasn't till 19.13pm - \
\
Slide pack was out of date Perfect size, any more attendees and it would lose its impact; small size meant personal questions could be raise greatly increasing the value of the course. Food was amazing, location great\
\
The training material did not reflect the training at all, complete waist. this is a quite expensive training and it is always nice to have a relevant training material to use in the daily business. The trainer, however, was good, he did fulfill my expectations.\
the course was booked through a different in house department so I cannot comment on process, however it was an extremely informative day - fully immersive which kept concentration & energy levels high - congratulations to the trainer who managed to include us all even with the diverse knowledge and job rols \
\
Fantastic trainer, and course.  Only issue I had is where I had been booked on a different date and location and wasn't informed (Or rather didn't receive any correspondence) that the course at that location had been cancelled until I went to check the address (to arrange transport) and was unable to find location, I had to find out from the 'Live Chat' function on the website.\
\
\
Great course, caused me to focus on the material for 2 days; great training materials. Exercises were well designed and value-added; nice use of checklists and handouts. Trainer seemed a bit unsure when taking a lot of questions on Day 1 - delayed the answer to Day 2; Also some of the Slides were skipped over too quickly to make up time. Overall, the course could do a better job of highlighting the key differences in the new MDR, rather than sole focus on the MDR. Trainer did a great job of recapping on the Day 1 learnings in a nice Quiz / flip-chart manner.\
very goog trainin material and trainer\
\
the course was excellent but I can see the depth of the content could easily span longer as some areas were brief and short so could do with a three day course\
\
Good course. Deliverer well.\
Course very helpful and interesting. Contents of course good but perhaps days were slightly too long as there was a lof of repetition. No organisation between hotel and meeting venue, waited 30+ mins for a taxi. Had to organise ourselves as course finished later than reception staff worked. Didn't bother after the first day.\
\
I booked the hotel and Meal deal and found their to be some confusion with regards meals and allowances. Taxi service provided through the hotel was also poor and unreliable. \
\
\
Limited on site parking.  I ended up in the last space on both days\
\
\
\
\
The training material provided for an ISO 14001 training course made several references to ISO9001. The answers provided by the trainer did not match the scenario discussed. The material was incorrect in many places.\
The Hotel ( Belfrey , Cambridge) was dirty ( cobwebs in the eating area, toilet was dirty with sticky floors and dirty walls).  The food was beyond awful.  Day one was some VERY dry pasta and cheese thing, or a dry and thin piece of unappetizing fish.  On both days there seemed to be a tendency towards spicy food ( Spiced fennel soup i think?, along with Indian cuisine) The only edible items were from the salad bar, however, being in November the weather was freezing and a warm plate of food was needed.  I ended up going to the Morrison's cafe across the road where a good hot meal could be had for \'ac\'a35.  For the Prices charged for this course I would expect far more.  The coffee and hot water was replaced regularly, however, this was often luke warm.  Food seemed to be re used throughout the facility ( i.e breakfast items from the restaurant turned up for our morning pastry).   On the first day the instructor was over an hour late.  He had advised he had called the office to say he was stuck in traffic and we were supposed to receive this message as well as items for the course.  This did not happen and we were left to find out what was going on. The room we were using was large, however, the lighting was poor and it made it difficult causing me eye strain by the end of the day. I would suggest for LR to not use this hotel for training unless there is significant improvement. \
\
Gary Brown was clearly knowledgeable of ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 though for me and the majority of attendees in the room, the pace was too slow as we are all experienced auditors.  Given the subsequent issues with delivery of the BRC element of the training (no training materials provided), it feels like the 9001 and 14001 elements were extended a little to 'fill' time.  The essentially lack of delivery of BRC element of training has been communicated to Paul Munday at LRQA and is being addressed via separate discussion.\
\
\
The Group on the two day course worked together well, and the Tutor was excellent. The lunch on the first day was poor.\
\
\
Paul was an excellent trainer and engaged with the whole audience. Some of the quieter participants were contributing which is when I knew it was a success. \
\
Great insight shown by trainer and enthusiastic about sharing knowledge that facilitating the groups learning.  Kept the session moving along at a nice pace and engaged all the group through out.   Helped steady nerves about the exams and build confidence, very enjoyable course, reminded me just how valuable talking to passionate people with common interests can be\
The food supplied was very sugary and lots of white bread would have liked whole pieces of fruit and more brown bread\
\
\
The trainer Albert was very knowlegeable and delivered the subject well, in a very professional manner. He made everyone feel at ease and made the course 'fun' too. Came away with a lot of clarification and a much better understanding. Thank you\
Great course, ticked all the boxes \
\
\
\
\
Overall, I found the training course really great. The trainer was also excellent. I wasn't expecting things to be still so open to interpretation. \
One major factor for the success of the training was without doubt the great skills of the Tutor. Not only his knowledge was extensive, but also his personal skills played an important role.  If I could suggest something about the facilities, I would suggest to have the same Standard of Hotel for all different Locations. The course in Leeds for example was supposed to be held in a 4* Hotel while the one in Newcastle was in a 3* Hotel.  The first Impression I had when entered into the Hotel was 'this place is so creepy'.\
The training on the day was very well put together with audience participation throughout and minimal note taking requirement which ensured maximum audience attention.  The trainer was very well equipped with wide knowledge.  \
Very explanatory and easy approachable when I did not understand and needed help.\
very concise and easy to understand\
The course was enjoyable, the trainer made the course interesting throughout and made sure to engage with everyone in the group.  All the course objectives were met and delivered well throughout.  Role play and discussion was always used. The hotel was enjoyable but the gym facilities were not good that was the only downside. \
The course tutor (Gary Brown) was easy to listen too and delivered the material in an interesting way. I would recommend anyone taking this training to work with LRQA and in particular use Gary, as he made a dry subject interesting. \
I had originally been booked onto the two-day course at Cranage for overall transition training but this course was unfortunately cancelled.  I suspect that this two-day course would have met my needs better, but still learnt some useful information due to the good subject knowledge of the trainer and their flexibility in terms of deviating slightly from the main topic.\
\
The handouts were not used. slides skipped through.  It wasn't explained in a simple way regarding the changes between the old versions of 9001 and 14001.  This could have been done easily using a comparison chart.  As for BRC, this was a complete waste of my time!!  no slides used and he didn't have the correct version of the standard.  He then only read out from the printed version that out Quality Mgr gave him.  I could have done this myself.  There was no presentation regarding BRC and what it is about. \
\
\
I found the course extremely informative and easy to follow. The tutor explained everything well and gave some excellent feedback.\
\
\
\
The course was great and the trainer provided us with some great materials (the MDD and MDR with pagination).  The trainer was nice, lot of knowledge and willing to help. He adapted to me because I did not know a lot. \
Thanks to the course tutor, Steven Rogers, for creating such a great environment to learn and where we were encouraged to express our own thoughts and opinions. Thanks for imparting the wisdom on us and for inspiring to do us the best!\
\
A lot of information to take in. \
\
\
The depth of the course was very limited - It may be that my expectations were not aligned to the course content - I was expecting much more insight on how lRQA would expect us to fulfill the requirements of the standard.  It may be more beneficial to offer training days on how to implement specific clauses - i.e. one day to go through context of the organization....another day to go through leadership etc\
\
Felt that the course could easily have been completed in 3 days, too much irrelevant information Friendly approach by Phil put everyone at ease\
\
\
The course was great and met expectations.  The trainer was very knowledgeable and went through the content in detail giving examples that were easy to relate to.  It was a really great course and I thoroughly enjoyed it.  The only negative for me was the homework.  Having a fairly busy role and family, I found it difficult to catch up on work and family time and do the homework, particularly on one night where it took a couple of hours to complete.       Overall, an excellent course and I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this to other teams - thank you.    \
I found Phil a good trainer, he ensured the team he was training all participated as a group and individually, he also added a fun element which made the course enjoyable.  Great job Phil !!\
\
I dialed in via video link, did not have the course material at hand, however, the trainer and all attendees were very accommodating. At the end of the session, many connections were made between the old ISO and 2015, quoting chapter and verse, this is vital and my understanding critical to correctly using the ISO2015 to improve the sites quality performance\
The course was very good but very intense.  This meant that I wasn't able to get as much out of the sessions as I might have been able to if I had more time to reflect on the learning points.  The fact we had an in house training course meant that we could get real value out of discussing how we could apply the generic learning points to our specific context.  The trainer's knowledge and experience, as well as his willingness to bring in extra content to address our objectives, was valuable.  His linking back to what we'd done on previous days, and referring back to the same diagrams, helped to cement knowledge.    Training materials:  I find that the best trainers (for me) tend to make relatively little use of the supplied training manual, and this seemed to hold true for this course as well.  There were discrepancies in content between some of our manuals, even though the page footer version information was the same.  I like to take lots of my own notes so a supply of blank paper to fit in to the binder at the front of the course pack would have been nice.  The pre-course pack was good in that it had a lot of plain English information in it. \
Course was excellently delivered by Momcilo. Tailored to our needs as much as is possible within the framework of an IRCA accredited course. Course itself was very intense with long days and would likely be more productive split over 2x3 day slots, to allow for consolidation of learning. The practical exercises were very valuable as was the role-play section; building more auditing good practice and auditing role-play into the course would be beneficial.  \
\
Huge thanks to Brian. The most patient trainer I've ever encountered.\
Overall the course was very good, however the key issue for me was that after a full very intense day we were expected to do 1+ hours of homework. I personally found this to be a very un-productive, inefficient and ineffective way of learning. By the time the course work has been delivered I found that I had absorbed enough information for that day. It would have been better to run the additional work into the next morning when people are fresh and have more capacity to learn.\
\
\
\
\
Although some of the delegates wanted to push on - I thought some of the sessions were a little rushed. Could have done with re-visiting the objectives at the end and doing some recap interms of transition to 2015 auditing  But excellent knowledge and style of delivery\
\
David had been given a brief to teach us on certain areas in a reduced timescale. The course was well put together, and appeared to be very relevant to what we will be asked to do (however, until I start to apply this in a live situation, I can't say definitely that this is the case :-)). David also made it interesting, and overcame the challenges of changing rooms half way through, and the small room for the second day, really well.\
Good mix of training materials; some real-life examples, perhaps video, would have been a useful addition, to help set the scene for those (like me) who were not familiar with auditing to begin with. I found the material stretching but it was all brought together very well in the role play exercises.\
1. I'm still awaiting the pre-course material 2. Every 2nd page appeared to be another exercise. A few less exercises would be preferable.\
Well delivered, Liz put things in a really easy to digest manner and could make us relate course content to our work place.\
Enjoyed the course and trainer was very good\
\
\
\
Very informative & well run course. \
Very enjoyable course. Good location with regards to hotel and training venue; location being very close.\
Excellent course, took away new perspective to auditing\
\
\
An excellent course at an excellent venue. The course material and delivery of it fully met my needs and expectations and I would recommend anyone needing clarification of the requirements of the new standard to attend the course.\
Very knowledgeable and professional trainer who got the message we required across very well \
I found the course very useful and really enjoyable. Keith's style of training made the course interesting and engaging. \
\
Excellent training all round.\
It was disappointing to find upon arrival that there were no course notes for me and I had to wait until the second day for the complete pack.  It was part way through the first day before even photocopies of that days relevant notes were available.  It would've helped if precise timings of the course were provided upon booking and not just a few days before arrival when train tickets had already been booked.\
\
\
Great course to strengthen knowledge on ISO 9001 and increase your understanding and interpretation of the standard. As a new Quality systems person I would have liked to spend some time on maybe how to structure, write and present a systems procedure.\
Overall i found the standard of the course quite basic, this may have been the wrong level for me.   I did learn some tips to use in the audit environment.   I think the course could benefit from some more challenging case studies and possible including an exam.   Booking process was fairly laborious however this may have been an issue with Skanska's internal L&D department. \
Very good course in very nice surroundings\
The course has challenged me to consider carefully that our internally conducted gap analysis and action plan is adequate for our future needs.\
The case study had a few missing bits of information which could have compromised the role play sections.  However, the trainer responded very positively to this and it actually resulted in some good discussion and audit trails.  The training material should ideally be updated as appropriate though.\
Course delivered by an instructor with in-depth knowledge,  linked to an engaging and friendly manner of delivery.\
An excellent venue, superb facilitiies\
Marek was a fantastic tutor and kept the group well engaged. highly recommend him. \
Trainer was very good in terms of easy to work with and open to questions and expanding on subject areas.  However, content delivery seemed haphazard and did not flow.  Would prefer more specific guidance at this level and less volume to the supplied material with more concise, useful content.  Did not feel much progress was made in terms of knowledge and understanding.\
\
\
\
Overall I thought this was a very well delivered course and would recommend to other work colleagues.\
The course was informative and led at a good pace. The course met expectations and so I scored an 8 overall. Had the course exceeded expectations I would have scored 9/10.\
The only comment is that the course attendees were issued with the older version of the course material - but this did not have an effect on the course itself.  \
\
The training was very good, the content reach my expectations.  The course started at 10:30 due to the lateness of some of the attendants. This might be because the starting time given in the email was suggested at 9:30 for a started time of 9:45. But the attached document with the course programme said 10:00.  On the day of the training, there were issues with the underground however, none of the attendants were affected.\
\
\
\
\
Following the course, I feel confident and capable of undertaking an internal audit. I cannot speak highly enough of Marek, he made a three day intensive course understandable and enjoyable. My only criticism is that some of the course material (in particular the precourse reading booklet) was written in rather confusing 'business speak' which made it difficult to understand for some one new to the subject.\
\
I really enjoyed the course it was a good balance of interaction and learning\
\
Overall, quite professional and informative training, which fulfilled my expectations. Nothing negative to say about anything.\
\
\
This was a really enjoyable day, well balanced with presentation and practical exercises, the interaction between Peter and our Team was first class.\
\
\
* lunch was small * why does it take so long to receive the certificates?\
\
Marik was very engaging, knowledgeable and made a potentially boring subject interesting and fun. He made the course what it was.\
I wasn't aware of the content of this course, I was asked to attend by Yara HESQ dept. In which I thought with the subject of auditing it would be a very slow 3 days. The trainer made it completely the opposite, he kept me entertained and ultimately interested.  I don't believe the trainer could be delivered so well without that trainer.\
Marek was a fantastic trainer. Great knowledge, incredibly helpful and kept everybody constantly engaged in whatever was being discussed or presented. Really friendly and funny guy, he clearly has a passion for the subject and it comes across through his training techniques and style.\
Superb delivery so well matched to the mixed experience of the group\
Finding the office on the first day was a bit difficult due to the location being at the back of Trinity Park, Sat Nav kept taking me to the Hotel at the rear of LRQA offices. On booking in I was given a small map which stated to use  different post code for Sat Nav. Would have been better to receive this information prior to commencing the course.\
I thought Marek presented this course very well, and it was an absolute joy attending this course.\
The course was very well delivered - the trainer made the content interesting. Much of the content could have been very hard to take in but Marek explained it very well and ensured good knowledge. \
Enjoyed the course, content and speed of delivery\
Difficult subject to keep engaged with but Momcilo was an excellent trainer.\
The course was not as I expected, but it will prove far more beneficial to me & my organisation. Momcilo was possibly the best trainer I have come across. He has a thorough understanding of ISO 9001 & is able to put it across to all delegates (no matter what their industry or level of understanding) in simple, straight forward terminology. An excellent trainer, although the word trainer is an understatement. I thought that the food & refreshments were suitable & adequate.    \
The visitor carparking should be pointed out to trainees when let thru the barrier rather than asking them to go back outside to move their cars, my electronic badge did not work so had to rely on other trainees to let me in and out to use the toilet etc and the usual levels of food and drink on offer having always attended LRQA events with in hotels / conference centres etc fell well below the normal standard , coffee machine only worked at the beginning of the day never at break times / lunch and the cold drinks fridge which had been open 1st thing was then locked ? and to effectively have an allocation of 2 small triangle sandwiches and an onion bhaji and 2 slices of melon left most on the course feeling still very hungry for the afternoon session. I certainly will not book any further training sessions at this venue with LRQA again.\
Excellent training on a non easy topic.  Gives a good insight on what is expected to transition to ISO 9001:2015.  Through discussions and exercises makes it easier to understand.  Not too difficult to follow even if you are not proficient with ISO 9001:2008. \
The trainer 'Momcelo' was fantastic. His knowledge and course presentation skills were excellent. If I ever use LRQA again for a training course I would hope it was with Momcelo. \
\
\
Parking restrictions did cause some difficulties \
Course is not the most thrilling, but trainer and all material given made the course enjoyable and informative.\
Car parking arrangements were vague.\
\
\
Some aspects of the course / delivery seemed more geared towards external auditing, it might be helpful if role plays etc were internally focused. That aside, it was a good course and well delivered.\
Kevin is a very knowledgeable trainer and delivery of the course was excellent. I'd like to thank him for provided a great introduction to auditing.\
The trainer made the course very enjoyable while imparting the information in in a very clear and understandable manner.  I particularly appreciated the not being taken through the changes from the 2008 version clause by clause.  I am certain that the personal objectives of all the attendees were fully met.  All the discussion of the course in the breaks was extremely positive.\
\
\
Consider provision of soft cold drinks e.g. Orange Juice Consider provision of a course in the North East/Yorkshire\
\
Really good course, really engaging trainer who kept everyone's attention throughout the two days.\
\
\
\
Momcilo turned dry subject matter into an engaging and clear session. He listened to our individual needs and goals then tailored the session to suit. I left with a far better understanding of the system than when I arrived and feel confident that I now know what needs to be done to attain and retain the ISO cert to the 2015 standard. \
A few more pictorial slides would be good showing the relationship between different sections of the regulaton and how they link together.\
\
Obviously I was disappointed to incur the extra cost of travelling to Bath, instead of Cambridge. The course was very good. \
Excellent trainer, who kept the attention of delegates very well, and who made the content very relevant for all.  Good interaction with delegates, and allowed them to air their concerns in relation to their own situation making the subject matter easier to interpret and understand.\
Our trainer managed to put a very positive spin on what isn't a particularly exciting subject.\
The only issue I had with the course was not related to the trainer. I felt that there was too many people in the room and the noise made it difficult to concentrate.\
The material was very relevant with interesting case studies to. Kevin was very enthusiastic and passionate.  Well presented, interesting discussions.   \
\
Really good and enjoyable training. Lots of activates to keep everyone motivated. Paul the trainer is very approachable and really does know and understand his subject.\
\
\
\
The trainer was very knowledgeable, however the training itself wasn't very interactive.  The pace of the course felt a little rushed, with lack of teas and coffees and comfort breaks in the afternoon. \
Excellent venue and easy to get to. Course timings were very good for dealing with traffic on the approaches from Cambridge. Regarding the course itself, Liz was a very good trainer and very accommodating of the group's needs and level of understanding. I felt I learned a lot.\
Keith did a great job, he's obviously very knowledgeable and a good teacher (and salesman).   \
\
Great course, great trainer.\
Excellent course, well delivered. On the back of the course i have already been able to implement my transition with a clear plan and actions.  Thankyou\
Other room was noisy during exam day. \
Overall, I was very happy with the course, its content and the facilities. The trainer was very helpful, engaging and knowledgeable. This course was a very enjoyable and positive experience for me.\
\
\
\
\
The first part of the training session seemed to take a while therefore meaning the second part of the training session (in my opinion the most important part) seemed a little rushed. \
Fantastic course, I shall be highly recommending the LRQA center at Birmingham,   One of the most professional and respectful courses that I've been on for a long time!\
\
\
The course is well structured with exercises throughout the course to help better understanding.\
Momcilo is a worldy! His ability to engage delegates using his years of experience take what could otherwise be a dry subject and bring it to life. A far better delivery than death by Powerpoint.  The man should get a raise :)\
Didn't feel that the venue were very accomodating to our requirements, timing of meals etc. exam conditions.\
Excellent course, professionally delivered, interesting and enjoyable. We had 5 delegates and I felt that was a good number - too many more and we would have struggled with the timing.\
A good course informative to subject and well delivered\
\
Good course, covered many of the aspects required and the trainer was very knowledgeable and approachable.\
The delivery was good with plenty of exercises, although at times it was rushed. \
I enjoyed the course I thought it gave me the information I needed to bring back to site and start the process of transition, the hand outs will be very helpful. the interaction with other attendees was very useful.  \
\
Very interesting course, well prepared and good resources used to make the information easy to understand. The course content was delivered very well by Liz who explained all in detail with good easy to remember/relate to examples. \
Great Course, Well worth it.\
\
\
\
\
\
Very good course, trainer excellent.\
Course lacked structure and depth of content. Trainer had subject knowledge but few training and communication skills.\
The trainer was a perfectly pleasant individual, though I found  some of his methods frustrating an uninspiring.  Asking broad questions - which only he knew how he wanted answered - to show off his knowledge meant a lot of the team were resistant to being involved.   I felt a lot of the course went around the houses and didn't stick to the material provided. Though I was grateful for this method on our last day as we managed to review the work that we had already been doing.  One-to-one on a specific matter with the trainer was helpful and it was clear he was extremely knowledgeable. He gave us a lot of opportunities to ask questions, and a lot of context.   I think what would be better for next time is to either stick to the course materials or put the objectives on the board and keep referring back. It's very easy in a learner's own mind to over-complicate what's in front of them. Basic principles should be taught and understood first, then layering the requirements/clauses/controls on top.  The instructor had clearly been doing it for many years and shared lot's of nuggets of information, but when asked his opinion in the group discussion about how we MIGHT be able to do it according to his experience, and what he thinks is best practise, sometimes he  gave irrelevant answers.   Please don't get me wrong, because of this course I am now able to audit and have a much better understand of how our BMS system can work better for the business. But, there were several senior people in one room for four days, it needs to be sharper, more condensed, we are not stupid people and have the capacity and ability to learn quickly. This should be considered for similar situations.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Quite a diverse group so difficult to get a personal understanding of your issues, although the trainer did gather questions and offered to get back to you. A lot of questions still outstanding around the electronic database, EUDAMED and how LRQA will transition so this couldn't be covered in any detail. Very powerpoint oriented from Section 10 onwards but other sections included a lot of interaction so afternoon was heavy.\
first half of the MDR course was very engaging. second half was more standard\
Will I receive a course certificate?\
\
I was a great course until lunch, then our teacher seemed to 'loose his energy', A pity because the first \'ac\uc0\u937  of the day was really inspiring. \
Maybe because this was one of the first courses but my expectation was higher from a NB course, the time versus the large amount of material didn\'82\'c4\'f4t fit and the material still got some errors. Material seems like \'82\'c4\'fadraft\'82\'c4\'f9 version. The exercises were great and the time to network with the other participants.  \
First half of the course was very good with lots of exercises. It seemed that after lunch the trainer lost the energy. It should be more clear to the trainer what was to be handled on the one-day introduction and what to be training in the rest of the days. When only having the one-day course it was more important to learn that day than to hear what would be talked about the other 2 days.\
very good course, however not always base on ISO13485:2016. this was more of a general Internal auditor course. \
Very informative and enjoyable course. It helped by only having 4 delegates as Dave was able to address our individual challenges, which he did wonderfully.  I came away from the course feeling a lot more confident assisting with taking my company through transition. \
\
Course was outstanding and I would strongly recommend to another person. Momcilo methodology perfectly designed for me, I took all his notes at the end of the course to put in my office :) Trainer perfectly organised, hope I will be organised one day. Booking process was a little bit painful as we were waiting for an invoice when you were asking for payment at the same time. \
good course lovely trainer\
the course was well presented and matched what I had expected\
\
 I only have one comment. The trainer allowed one of the participants to talk openly and in great detail about her organisation (where she worked). I do not think  that this should have been the case. I was not interested to listen to a discussion about her company's   issues to maintain ISO standards. The trainer should have been able to limit the time spent discussing her issues in front of the class. If she wanted to talk, it should have been done in private time (after 5pm), not in class time.      \
Without question, Liz brought the course to life and added her own unique style in ensuring all attendees remained attentive and involved throughout.  She is to be commended for her enthusiasm and ability to engage from the start of the course through to completion.  Thank you.\
A very good course which met all of my expectations. There were only 5 of us on the course so it felt very intimate and enabled more to be done and more time to ask/answer questions. The venue was excellent.\
\
\
\
I did not personally book the course.  The trainer was very knowledgeable about multiple industries, which was useful when the 14001 system was being explained. \
\
\
\
\
\
Really enjoyed the course. The trainer was really passionate and knowlegable and covered everything I needed.\
\
\
A note to question regarding delivery from trainer. Actually it was a very fine delivery of the training material, but due to dental issues it was a bit difficult to understand at several points. I can not tell if this was only an issue for me as being from abroad or it was general. \
\
Trainer was excellent, very clear and helpful.\
To my understanding course objectives were met. Overall it is a good course, well worth attending.  The best way to consolidate the training is by application and practice.\
\
Upon arriving for the first day of the course, we were all made to feel extremely welcome. I feel our trainer catered for each person and their delivery of information was excellent. The course was manageable for someone who had minimal subject knowledge.\
Needs to concentrate on OHSAS 18001, rather than how to do an audit.\
The Course was useful and met all my objectives.\
The Course was useful and met all my objectives. \
The course principally focused on the changes and new requirements of the 2015 version comparing to the 2008 version, which was exactly what I was looking for when I booked this course.\
A very good course, well presented\
The course was tailored to our exact requirements with excellent delivery from a trainer who obviously had in-depth understanding of the subject matter.\
\
\
training ecxellent and tutor was brilliant..\
\
This course really helped my understanding of this role and I've already put a few things in place to aid the business. Momcilo was excellent, ensured everyone understood before moving to the next subject.\
\
N/A\
I, and a few others on the course, felt the venue domestics and attention to that detail was lacking. Perhaps a somewhat 'captive audience' when training delegates stay at the venue, as opposed to mainstream hotel looking to secure customers.  Bar staff not always on the ball.  A room checklist would be a good start for the hotel's domestic staff (items missing, provision varied).  The food excellent, good comfortable bed/linen etc.    Albert, the Trainer, is committed to his work, experienced and capable tutor, perceptive to student need. He worked hard  making sure his feedback preparation work was complete for each morning of our course days.  Good course content.  Good revision/exam approach strategy tips that were useful update when I hadn't taken exams for several years. Pass on my thanks to Albert.  I attended another of his courses about 4 months ago.   It was a hard course!\
More information in the course folder would be useful for future reference. Tim Sparey is an outstanding trainer, I very much enjoyed his delivery, approach and humour. \
\
The best LRQA course I have been on; Keith's training style is very flexible and he clearly assesses everyone's needs.  It was relaxed but challenging, he also put us at ease to prepared us for the exam.  \
David was an excellent trainer, he made a course which I approached with a groan (!), very engaging and worthwhile.\
The training was comprehensive and well adjusted to suit our business. The trainer was clearly very knowledgeable and was able to relate a fairly legislative and complicated subject in easily understandable and relevant terms.   The only thing preventing top marks all round is that I would have liked some time to relate what we'd learned to specific examples within our organisation. As it transpired, timing did not allow for this on the day. \
\
Overall a good course which brought me up to speed with the latest ISO 9001 requirements.\
Prefer a smaller / booklet style training material instead of A4 folder with just a few handouts within\
Instead of a folder with has a few handouts would prefer a leaflet /booklet type document which you could refer to and takes up less space, easier to use whilst travelling. Was pleased that the training was not solely based on power point presentations.\
The course was very well presented and helped me to understand the auditing requirement of ISO14001:2015 more clearly.\
Very informative and well presented course, some of the more detailed slides were not included within the handouts which maybe should have been. Thank you.\
Copies of the standard were loaned but really could be given out.\
The course is too crammed and I was so tired by the end that it would have been dangerous to drive home. Also there was not enough down time to be able to absorb the information. The trainers were both excellent but the structure of the course meant it was very difficult to assimilate the information.  \
Simply the best course I have ever done! Albert was brilliant, I cant thank him enough for making a particularly intense week enjoyable and knowledgeable at the same time. Moncilo came along in support towards the end of the week and was also extremely pleasant, knowledgeable and easily approachable. If I could have Albert training me every time, I'd do so many more courses!  No reflection on LRQA but it's probably best that I say the hotel itself did let the experience down somewhat - the housekeeping was poor and the service generally was poor. (Hence the 2 star for facilities)\
The course was well presented and the trainer was very knowledgeable and engaging. Although I personnally, taken internal auditor courses before I thought that this one provided the required information as to the new standard and the changes.\
I found this very informative, and gave me confidence in knowing what would be expected of us when we start work on our ISO9001 submission.\
\
Great trainer, full of fun and knowledge that kept us all interested and excited. Facilities were lovely, shame some of the hotel's customer service put a slight downer on it all. \
Good overall course but could have been a little more coherent in the delivery. Dotted around the subjects a bit.\
\
\
\
The trainer was very able and polite gentleman and would recommend him to other contacts. The training materials were ok. I have done the course before (9001 version) but i think there should be more emphasis on interviewing practice and techniques.  \
Paul Smith our trainer was great, made us feel at ease and made the course enjoyable as well as informative\
Course covered the subject matter fully. However the presentation did not focus on the needs of the individual/company as much as could have.\
Very thorough covered all topics\
Sarah was lovely and did her best  in a situation where she had a lot of information to present. I felt that the course was too rushed in order to finish and not enough time for colleagues to get a proper understanding or ask questions.  I already had some understanding so was able to cope with the speed but those with no prior knowledge didn't get enough out of it.\
Some of the course hand outs had content missing, due to the boxes around them being possibly to small, also it would have been good if all the slides that were used were given out as hand outs too.  There seems to be a lot of content for the course to be packed into one day, this may need to be extended as I know some of the people on the course with me struggled a bit.\
\
The main issue was the customer service at the venue.  The delegate notes supplied did not include some of the power point slides which would have been beneficial. \
Could have done with a little more on how to audit & what to look for when auditing ie practical advise.\
 As ever, the work sessions are very good for testing and reinforcing knowledge.  In my case I would have benefitted on case studies pitched in a 17025 environment but, no matter, it was a valuable course.  Thank you. Derek\
The training content was very good as were the notes but some of the slides were missing from the slide-pack. We were able to take photos of the missing slides so not a show-stopper but worth consideration for future. The trainer was exceptionally good at gauging our individual requirements and responding to them. I would have liked a bit more time to explore how to apply some of the ideas to our specific business but I appreciate this is not practicable with people from many different business set-ups attending and the time allocated - maybe a little more time could be allocated for candidates specific questions. Our trainer was very kind in taking time out to discuss but I did feel guilty because this was the expense of his break. \
\
The hotel was below par, experienced several issues, from bar and food service to facilities in the bedroom. Would not stay there again and would defiantly not recommend. The course was good and trainer was very knowledgeable, and ,made the course enjoyable! A few slide were not available in the course material or hand outs, so some of us took photos of the slides needed, it would of course been better if these slides were available in the course material.\
A very intense well delivered course\
\
My course trainer Momcillo was great, his subject knowledge was incredible and managed to explain everything easily, Momcillo made the course far more interesting than I thought it was going to be, the hotel facilities were lacking with lots of complaints from the other attendees.  This course was re-scheduled leading to loss of a hotel booking but was discounted to take that into account.\
Momcilo's knowledge of ISO9001:2015 was outstanding, he could quote clauses word for word from both the 2008 and 2015 versions,  his delivery of the content was brilliant and his pace was also relevant for the people that were on the course.  No question was ever too much trouble for him to answer \
\
Personable presenter who shared numerous anecdotes - these were helpful in some elements of the delivery but became a real distraction at other times, making it very difficult to stay focused.   At 4 hours the course was too long - felt like it could have been completed in half the time with a sharper focus on the subject material. \
The course gives a general overview of the new standards, and focus the attention to the key changes. Recommendable for management awareness.\
Enjoyable and interesting\
\
\
\
Albert's knowledge of this subject and documentation is exceptional and his light hearted approach to his delivery method made the whole learning experience far more acceptable.    \
\
\
Trainer was very professional and new his stuff! Also I particularly liked his approachable manner and a genuine all round tidy bloke! \
\
\
\
\
Slides that the trainer used were different to the hand-outs which made it difficult to follow. The slides and hand -outs were of a good quality themselves, however they did not always match each other and this made it harder to follow along with the trainer at times.\
\
\
I think doing an actual audit taking in all the points required would be helpful.\
\
\
I thought the course was well presented. The fact the instructor never just read from PowerPoint slides was a key factor in this for me.\
Felt like we were regurgitating the standard. Would like to see more real examples on how companies are meeting the requirements. \
The small number of visitor car parking spaces was a concern. During the 2 day course we were given spaces inside the grounds. It would of been good to know this in advance.\
Although the refreshments were good the lunch food was of poor quality\
\
Started well but began to feel rushed as it went along, trainer didn't wait long enough in between sections for delegates to comment as to whether or not they had understood.   \
\
The course and trainer exceeded all of my expectations - there were a couple of minor issues with the venue which were not within the control of the trainer or the course provider. Nonetheless, it was still a good venue.\
The course was extremley well presented and covered everything i needed to know.  Albert was fantastic and made the course enjoyable as well as informative. thank you\
\
The venue was quite far from Cambridge and a big problem when you do not arrive by car. The food at the hotel was overpriced and every lunch was not good at all. \
It was a very useful interactive training and the way of teaching was spontaneous. I liked that the trainees came from different GKN sites.\
Good, informative session and well presented\
Course. Great that we were given (on the day) the link to the Correlation matrices from & to 2008 - 2015 (2015 - 2008) but it would have been really helpful to have received a hard copy on the day of training for easier reference/progress.  The volume of on the day hand outs was time consuming & as the last table to receive the hand outs we found that sometimes things had commenced before we had time to view the document. (why not just put them in the Delegates Notes folder & refer to them when required) These point are ideas to just to help smooth what I thought was a good value course with a very good presentation style which allowed delegates to get involved as & when required.       Facilities. Lovely building & comfortable room. Shame about the erratic security passes & lunch selection was poor & not very enjoyable. After the course I discovered an information pack tucked inside my visitors tag, should have been mentioned whilst checking in & why you have a map on how to find you included when you are already on-site? No location map sent with my joining details & the site link didnt locate you! I just used google maps using your post code. As I respect LRQA standards & support please see these comments as a wishing to help approach.  Thanks to all at LRQA. Nigel Ford.                 \
A very informative course with lots of integration between the trainer and pupil's this kept everyone's attention as some courses can have you wandering off but not this, I am very impressed with the way the training took place.\
\
Albert was a great host. Very knowledgable and the course was an enjoyable experience. The course was well planned and objectives were met and delivered on time in accordance with the schedule  \
\
Well structured course presented by a knowledgeable tutor, well timed, venue is well suited near the train station, front desk staff were also pleasant and helpful\
Second time I have attended a course ran by Albert Fessey, great teacher- embeds the knowledge with a great approach and sense of humour.\
\
\
The room in which the training was delivered was extremely cold.  Myself and my colleagues were sat in coats and were still shivering.  The aircon was turned off at lunch by us but the room was too cold to heat up in time.  \
\
The course was changed slightly for our needs specifically. After a brief conversation with the trainer he tailored it to exactly what we needed. We had our own briefing afterwards related to the morning. The morning session set the scene perfectly and allowed our own afternoon session to go without a hitch.\
David had a fairly dry delivery and seemed to take a long time to get to the point, but there was no doubt by the end of the course that he had imparted what we needed to know in a way that was very usable by us. The course was tailored very quickly to our needs.\
\
\
Excellent course and superb facilities to match. Tutor had extensive subject knowledge too.\
\
Liz is a great facilitator and is really good at people management. On top of this she has a fantastic knowledge and good real-life examples. Similarly she is able to explain a point using numerous examples which really helps all delegates. I rated the quality of the training materials as 3 stars because, although there is not much wrong with them, it is very paper heavy and could benefit from more electronic resources and interactive software. This does not deflect what is a cracking training and i have gone away with all my personal objectives achieved.\
Liz managed to keep the delegates engaged throughout the day, with a good amount of delegate participation.\
I was not aware that the 9001:2015 book needed to be bought and read before the course.  When attending the 9001 course it was provided.  This meant I was behind the rest of the class for the training period.\
There is one incorrect reference to the old ISO 27001 standard in the course handbook. Overall though excellent and much better than what my colleague received from his ISO 27001 training with BSI.\
A very well run course, by an exceptional tutor.\
\
The course was outstanding for its depth of knowledge of the standard, however I believe it may need to be spread out over another day as we were in the classroom until 19:30 every night once the daily learning and homework had been completed, this does not make for quality learning and concentration levels\
Pre course work arrived very late with little chance to study before course began. During the training it would have been easier to view the EMS of the fictional company as a single bound folder rather than having to go back through course notes.\
\
For the cost, it would have been nice to have included the A5 laminated copy of the ISO9001:2015 standard - as is the case when attending BSI run training courses!  The format of having two trainers, working in tandem, worked really well and made the course better than it otherwise might have been.  Both trainers (Liz and Albert) good in their own way.\
\
\
The pre course information was very late; I needed to book train ticketa and it would have been nice to know basic stuff like course start times sooner\
An enjoyable week, tempered by a number of personal stress related issues. General learning of the standard and application was good (which was my objective). As a quality specialist, I spent time reflecting how the standard is applied in my organization rather than generic application - a mistake upon reflection.  Good to refresh the basics - 19011.  Please apologise to Keith on the standard of my exam. He spent all week telling us of the mistakes to avoid in section 4 and then having decided to do two 'additional information' reports, I found myself writing a second NC about something that had no evidence. No matter how hard I tried, I could not stop myself. I am not sure if this was the question, the fact that I had been told not to do it or just my stress levels, but it was an uncontrollable situation. Can't blame the trainer!\
I really enjoyed the training session as someone who conducts audits I learned some new skills on planning audits and as a refresher for me it was spot on.\
My only issue is that the training manual provided doesn't give notes on every clause, just the major ones where the information and examples are great.  For instance the first section goes through the Scope and gives good examples, but doesn't give information on 4.1 and 4.2.  This may be an issue for those who don't start applying the training straight away and have to interpret the clauses from memory.\
Trainer had an absolute wealth of knowledge which he delivered to us in an engaging way.\
\
It was a bit uncomfortable that the toilets were very far from the meeting room (on a the ground floor, while training was on the first floor). It made the break seem very short as it took 8+ minutes for toilet and just about 5-7 to have a drink and a chat. Also, the training room was freezing cold to the point that it prevented me to pay full attention and participate in the activities as much as I would have like to.\
Enjoyed the training and felt delivery was very good.\
\
\
My course tutor was brilliant, however, I found the course content rather dry.\
Albert was very knowledgeable and helpful, made the course easy and simple throughout.\
Not all presentaton material was in the course materials but was mostly provided as a handout or issued via email \
Excellent. Especially the interactive approach was highly appreciated. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
A personal print-out copy of AS9100 would have been helpful to make personal notes in the text.  At the training only loan copies were at hand. \
\
\
\
Thank you to all at LRQA for the help you gave to all my staff and my self during the course`s  and a big thank you to Paul Smith a very kind person\
Thank you to all at LRQA for the help you gave to all my staff and my self during the course`s  and a big thank you to Paul Smith a very kind person\
I would like to start by thanking Paul, He is a very pleasant and kind person, he made the course enjoyable he`s a top man.\
Steven showed an excellent knowledge of the Regulations and produced very useful and informative hand-outs.\
Very intense,informative ,trainer very good\
\
Excellent, very informative and well presented. \
\
\
-\
-\
\
I found it a bit heavy for a day.\
\
N/A\
\
Excellent as eve.  All of my auditor training has been provided by LRQA and I thoroughly recommend them as a training provider\
I really enjoyed the course and thought that the trainer (Keith Mythen) was outstanding.  He was extremely knowledgeable and conveyed the course material effectively. \
very enjoyable course , lots of important and relevant information which will be of great value to me in future audits at work\
\
I would have preferred more comprehensive notes to refer back to, but fortunately, Paul provided us with some additional handouts.\
\
Thoroughly enjoyed the course just the right amount of people (8) with a wide selection of different businesses. Good mix\
Informative course touching on the basic aspects as required for our course, the way of delivery and the tasks set helped for the information to stay in mind and allowed for us to review our current practices.\
\
I found this course very interesting and informative. I was very impressed with Dave as he was highly professional, but at the same time made me feel relaxed, and the course very enjoyable. Would highly recommend.\
\
The course was delivered professionally. The trainer made everyone feel at ease and was always willing to explain and offer guidance when needed. \
Could have been a longer course to allow all of the material to sink in  Really good delivery and will utilise \
Momcilo was great. He invited questions and was happy to allow the discussion to follow our line of questioning.  \
no all training material received for course\
This was essentially a top-up course, giving the Internal Auditor course an update to the 2015 standard. As such, I didn't expect it to be particularly in-depth and it wasn't. The trainer was friendly and knowledgeable and the course was presented in an informal but informative manner. I'd say the length of the course and the depth of information was appropriate.\
Fantastic course, very informative. Trainer kept entire group engaged throughout the session. Would highly recommend. \
\
\
\
no joining instructions received for confirmation, too many emails for booking and confirmation\
\
The Course was excellent and the two way feedback and discussion helped the understanding to many of the points that had to be reviewed in the course.  The hotel was good, rooms were ok, but the food could have been better and with more choice.\
\
A very helpful training session. Attendance has helped clarify my understanding of the new ISO 9001:2015 standard. Liz the course trainer was great.\
\
Course very good, trainer could have been more positive about the new ISO on day 1 and perhaps not say it had not gone far enough - ie iso could have been better  - even though perhaps true it created a bit of a 'so what' that was dispelled by day 2 Trainer could have had a better knowledge of the overview  of our business and that we are the environment agency, not the environmental agency  Trainer was otherwise personable and knowledgeable  responding to challenging questions effectively \
Excellent course and trainer its a shame the company did not support it fully with proper facilities and times \
It would have been good to have had handouts with the 'correct' or model answers as sometimes in the group work there was a degree of drift from the objectives.  I think I would find model answers useful to look back on, once I am deploying the skills in my workplace. Trainer was entertaining and made potentially dry subject matter much more bearable.\
Trainer diverged a lot from the subject matter and at the time I found it hard to see how the divergences were relevant.  I participated in another course with the same trainer immediately after and towards the end of that one, I came to understand the relevance of the earlier divergences.  I tend to think in a quite linear way, whereas the trainer is very non-linear.  I was ok with that once I understood and started to see the links between the various information sources provided.\
\
Knowing little of 9100 was a massive disadvantage as the trainer assumed we had a working knowledge of the previous revision.  I was completely lost during the exercises as I did not understand the mindset or what the goal was.  We did not go through the answers properly or have any example answers written in the files so there is nothing to refer to in the future.  That definitely needs to be addressed.\
I found the course very interesting and refreshing to have an enthusiastic instructor. \
The training was well presented and the trainer made it as interesting as possible considering the material. Only benefit would be some completed audits that could be used for reference along with the notes gained during the course.\
\
Enjoyed the course as it provided me with a good grounding in ISO 9001.\
As there were only 4 of us on the course and all of us being quite experienced the trainer tailored the course to our needs.\
Whether due to time of booking other reason, I was not sent the Pre-Course information the other delegates received. I was however supplied with a copy once it was noted that the material had not been made available, prior to the course. I have recheched my mailbox and can confirm that the only attachment received in any correspondence was the LRQA Public Training Course T's&C's.\
\
The course was very generic and as such I didn't learn anything new relating to my job function, validation. I.e the new standard brings in software validation but that was not covered.\
I was only partially involved in the booking system. The human element from LRQA was good but the web site was difficult to navigate. Can't comment on the bill payment process (HR job). Hotel helpful with regards to LRQA rate but personal payment. Shame a copy of the actual standard was not included. It has been when I attended other LRQA courses.\
\
Very high standard - some shortcomings on some of the data collection forms such as audit checklists and environmental impact identifications in respect of either not having the form present, or not having enough of them. Aside from that a very high standard of delivery and the lads subject knowledge was to a very high standard - a sterling effort.\
\
Good Course ..... enjoyed it.\
Excellent course delivered from personal experience and knowledge standpoint. I would recommend it. I would have preferred more group activities!\
As much as it was tough, it was a great course and I learnt a lot.\
Very enjoyable.  Dave was an excellent trainer and made the course fun and interesting.\
\
Difficult to assess because the materials were not designed for the course that was delivered (because of our special request). The materials seem useful.\
Momcilo was great!\
A useful course, and I took away some actions / things to challenge back in the workplace. But I think this could have been better tailored to the audience.  * We're the Environment Agency. If you're going to train a room full of people from the same organisation, it's good practice to get the name right from the start. Not continue to call us 'Environmental Agency' * Understand your audience. We regulate. We provide a service. So examples from companies who seek to make a profit and provide a product were unhelpful to me, and I disengaged. * Trainer needs to be aware of his own biases. In one day, he said the words 'Ladies and Gents' over 50 times. It was distracting. Coupled with his view that 'I don't care about your gender', insisting we complete our 'title' on the form (I've no idea why you need to know my title or gender for a training course) and then expressing disbelief around 'flux genders' I felt he overstepped the mark in expressing his personal opinions on gender identity, and this was irrelevant to the content material and distracting for course participants. I wasn't there to hear his uninformed views on gender identity. It made me uncomfortable. He assumed he was in a room of CIS hetronormative people who shared his disbelief. He wasn't. It wasn't inclusive for people who sit outside the gender binary. * The course could be a lot more engaging. For me, it was too much sitting down, listening to someone read out the standard. Tiring, repetitive, dull. The content deserves more than that.  \
\
\
\
The course itself was excellent, as was the trainer Steve Rogers, along with the materials that we actually received.  What was not excellent, however, was the failure by LRQA or its material supplier to actually provide myself and the other trainees with our individual bound and page numbered copies of the IVDR and IVDD as was supposed to happen.\
It did not go to plan, our material was limited and we did not receive our booklet with the new IVDR so was promised it would come the next week, the week has gone and we haven't received it. There were technical difficulties too, which could have been avoided i.e the battery on the lap top went dead... was a bit disappointing but the group activities were cool\
Still awaiting piece of training material.\
Overall a waste of time. \
Very good. \
Very good trainer, delivered the course very well.\
Excellent knowledge of the trainer made a good introduction that was flexible to the needs of all the trainees. A good all round introduction to the standard.\
Excellent knowledge of the trainer made a good introduction that was flexible to the needs of all the trainees. A good all round introduction to the standard.\
I now have the confidence to audit to ISO 9001:21015, especially when addressing top management demonstrating the integration of the QMS into our organization's business processes. \
By any estimation, a very good grounding in this subject.\
What could have been a very boring course was very good.  Interesting and extremely well presented.  The anecdotes made it much easier to understand.  I have one improvement all be it a small one that a copy of the ISO Standard could be included in the pack to be taken away\
Delivery of the course was ok but a bit 'wordy'. Would have been helpful to have had more practical exercises.\
Trainer was very friendly and easy to work with. Good and useful discussions of the topics during the course.\
Parking information provided with joining instructions needs to be clearer. \
\
\
The scenario exercises could have been a bit more structured - felt like we were left without guidance \
\
I wish I had Momcilo's presentation skills. \
the course is good, but it can be done in one day. I think a lot of material is given when it is not needed.  Overall enjoyed the course and learnt about auditing.\
Marcelo was an excellent trainer that kept everyone focused and challenged the group in a very constructive way to get the best from them.  Would highly recommend him to others.     \
The small number of attendees meant the training was more personal and was adapted to meet our group needs, course times were flexible and were arranged to suit those travelling longer distances. Thank you.\
\
\
Trainer was very helpful and had more than enough knowledge of the subject matter.  Facilities at the venue were good however it was a very noisy environment due to other groups next door etc..... Also the room layout was not suitable due to desk positions in relation to the  projector screen. \
Really enjoyed this course and found it very informative.\
\
this was one of the best trainings that i had till now. \
The order of the training course material was not quite followed during the training, so I had to go back in the evening to understand what sessions were covered on that day. Overall it didn't affect my performance.\
Some of the text in the printed slides wasn't clear\
Course days were to long\
I thought the course was great and was hugely valuable for me. The course materials and trainer were both fabulous and I have learnt so much. I will definitely be recommending the course for others.\
\
The course delivery was great, Liz keep the group engaged throughout what are long days.   To improve the course attendees should have a minimum level of experience & knowledge, much time and progress was wasted on the basics ... more suited to an internal audit course not lead auditor... thus left me somewhat frustrated at times at the speed of progress. \
The tutor didn't meet the objectives - the course was very anecdotal from his perspective. There were a couple of candidates who's first language wasn't English - they struggled to follow the content in places. Too much focus on quoting section references from the guideline - it was all just words for the first 2 days. Too much time wasted on 2008 standard, everyone was new to the role and wanted 2015 guidance. Exercises were not relevant - we did ask how one was relevant, we were told he'd explain later. The purpose of the test should have been explained first, so it had more meaning. Handouts were given after discussion - notes couldn't be added to relevant sheets, even though we continually requested them up front.  He continually picked up one girl for taking notes, saying - I have a handout for this. He should have given it out first. I feel the course tutors should be assessed, not everyone has the same learning styles.  I felt lost for the first 2 days, day 2 was all sat down in a room listening - very little focus on engaging the group.  The tutor is obviously very knowledgeable on the material - but struggles making it relevant.    \
David was extremely knowledgeable, regularly able to quote sections of the standard from memory. He gave the class confidence in his knowledge and service delivery. A very personable individual who engaged with the group.\
\
\
\
\
The venue used had very thin walls which doesn't help with a loud group next door. Aside from that the course was well led and full of useful information for a new Quality Manager\
The course provided an overview of how clauses within the standard inter-related but gave a broad brush approach at times. I can appreciate that it has to meet the requirements of a wide audience and peoples circumstances are different, but it didn't provide many real examples that attendees can put into practice.\
The course was well structured and run by a wonderful instructor Olivier, his tone/manner and overall way of working and structuring of the course was well appreciated and well taken.   \
Venue was very good however on arrival on hte first day the venue had mixed up the room venue for the course; this was very confusing resulting in people from both courses run by LRQA ending up in the wrong location (floor 1 discuss vs floor 2 illustrate). It was sorted relatively quickly but I had to phone LRQA in Coventry to check if I was at the right venue\
It was a great course! I understood the new requirement of the ISO 9001:2015 and I a confident I can successfully implement them in my organisation.\
Really enjoyed the course and learned a lot over the 2 days. Thank you.\
Much of the pre-course information did not match what actually occurred during the course regarding individual assessment.  The trainer could have adapted a little more to non-Brittish participants.\
This was the best Environmental Trainer that LRQA has. I really enjoy the way he presented this training, the materials he used were more useful than just the normal LRQA approach.  LRQA needs to have an approach to the training like this trainer has. I don't need anyone reading the standard to me (I can do it myself), we need an approach that really shows the impact these changes on the standards can have in a organisation.\
\
The trainer was very engaging and enthusiastic which in turn kept us alert and engaged.\
Excellent trainer, the training course was done in a very professional way  The facilities were great, very good service, friendly staff\
The food offered was not good, and the drinks supply was not constant.\
The trainer was excellent, very engaging. \
I find it difficult to apply the information taught during the course when using case studies as they do not relate to what our business does.  It would be really helpful if the course could somehow move away from case studies and in some way try to get course attendees to think about how the material relates to their own job and business.\
Day 1 of the course was a bit slow for me, I think the main reason being that I have gone through a lot of ISO14001 transitions already. Day 2, I enjoyed more.\
\
The course content was significant for only 3 days especially as the course is apparently aimed at a class size of 8-10 delegates.   I think this would have been a challenge to facilitate, but fortunately the class size was small and consisted of candidates who had similar competence. This made the course intensive but very enjoyable as Keith facilitated and coached professionally.\
\
Trainer was excellent and a real expert in the course material. I would have liked to have seen some more real life examples of context, interested parties and their applicability and issues as opposed to general examples and theory.\
\
Overall I enjoyed the course and was pleasantly surprised at the high standard of the venue and its facilities.  My instructor Nick made me feel at ease from the very beginning and delivered the course information in a staggered approach that made it easily digestible.  I feel I have learnt a lot of valuable information that was relevant to the role I was training for.  If I could improve on anything, I would perhaps liked to have made it a little more modern. E.g. The use of visual aids via a tablet or laptop to observe examples of how to conduct a professional audit, i.e. a short video of an experienced Auditor interviewing an auditee. Or use power-point presentation instead of using an old-school flip chart as I found some of the hand writing hard to read. Nonetheless the information was still laid across successfully and the trainer was open to questions at any point to discuss.  \
The course was not completely what I expected. The emphasis was more on auditing than the actual standard ISO 14001. However, there were some very important points made and, as such, the knowledge gained will certainly help when conducting EMS internal audits more effectively.\
A very well ran course with a health amount of interaction to keep everyone interested.   My main learning from the course is the need to make my notes clear to help report writing . \
\
\
\
We were all impressed with the course and the level of engagement that the trainer obtained from everyone present. He was able to draw out important issues and get candidates really thinking about how it applied to their areas of the business which is exactly what we needed it to do. \
Course was very informative, for me it was a good refresher in the ever changing world of Medical Device regulatory requirements.\
The boking process for the course was fine, I did however have to prompt LRQA, as to when I would receive the pre- course information hence the down scoring.  I was not totally happy with the facilities the room we were in smelled of what I can only describe as urine, and the food was not up to scratch. One member of our course had to eat crackers and cheese because there was not much variety. \
The training venue catering options were very restricted for people who do not eat spicey food, eg curries etc and for the two days of the course, I ended up eating bread rolls.\
Mr Momcilo was an excellent tutor and an extremly interesting character that add to the course. I achieve all my objectives but for a new starter in QA I felt that the course could have been spread over 3/4 day's just to understand and take it in on a slower pace.  I stayed over at the Cambridge Belfry Hotel, due to attending the course at day time, evenings meant working, so I ordered room service and I was charges 3 pounds in the evening for my tray and 5 pounds in the morning for breakfast which I thought was out of order and not happy about.  \
Mom\'83\'e7ilo was excellent, very engaging.\
I didn't book the course personally so cannot comment. The trainer Momcilo was very good, I enjoyed learning from him and I also appreciated that he kept within the time table while managing to cover and explain the material. I thought the hotel staff were a little disorganised/inattentive; a very little extra effort from them would have made for a more comfortable experience.\
Part of the hotel package was \'ac\'a328 per night for meals, and I felt this was not vaule for money as even if you only spent \'ac\'a315 on a meal and had a drink with it the drink was charged onto.\
\
\
\
I cannot comment on the booking process or the administration as this was undertaken by the our Training Department. The Hotel: 1. On the Monday the lunch was poor quality and very little left - this was improved upon on the Tuesday. 2. The Toilet facilities did not reflect a four star hotel - either loo seats damaged / loose and not cleaned.\
\
\
\
Hi,  At the end of the five days when I reviewed the pre-course work on my objectives for the week all were met and it was delivered in an interesting and engaging way.  Thanks Brian \
Well constructed and presented course that covered all the elements required for basic internal auditing skills; could have focused a little more on the specific requirements of the new IATF 16949 standard. Paul delivered the subject matter in an easy going and relaxed manner that made the training experience enjoyable. \
Facilities were perfect for during the course however the room facilities were not as good - with no air conditioning, windows that would not open more than an inch or two and no fans available. The quilt was a winter duvet, this was all rather unfortunate due to the heat wave but made the week rather unbearable. The kettle had limescale on the outside leaked and therefore was dangerous to use, the puddle was cleared up everyday but  the kettle not replaced although I left a note.\
Well presented over x2 days\
Excellent training course with excellent instructor. He made the standard come alive and very good at demonstrating how it applies in real world situations. Utilised the time to explain well and answer questions with the level of detail required. Learnt a lot and as result much more confident in my auditing skills and ISO9001:2015 knowledge.\
\
I think the pre-course material should be sent out a bit earlier, to allow for the fact people (attendee and HR booking the course) can be on holiday.  The trainer was very knowledgeable and delivered the information in an interesting way. However, I was surprised that early finishes every day meant the course was at least 6 hours short of the planned programme.\
\
\
\
A well presented course delivered by a trainer that obviously knew the subject inside out. \
\
\
Overall a good course. It had a very steep learning curve, mainly due to my limited experience in the subject matter. At times, it was challenging, but worthwhile. It was an intense course and did involve homework, which was helpful in preparation for the exam.   I did have an engaging group and Gary Brown was a unique lecturer/historian/philosopher.   The venue was great, with a dedicated lounge area for breaks/lunch. The Reception staff were helpful.\
I would like to thank Liz for her time, help and support. My colleague and myself thoroughly enjoyed the course. Very informative and a great group of people too.\
The course content was of a high standard and the delivery was of an exemplary standard. This is because the trainer engaged fully with delegates, taking questions and providing explanations that were clear, accurate and illustrated by well considered analogies and examples that were relevant to the individual or group. This course supported me through validating knowledge already acquired and clarifying requirements where uncertainty existed. This was a high quality course delivered in a competent and professional manner. \
This is quite a complex subject & maybe it should have been spread over three days, with possibly shorter days. Ie, 10 - 4pm. The weather was exceptionally warm and although we had air-conditioning, more breaks were required. I personally cannot sit down for long perids of time due to a medical condition, which I guess had not been revealed at the time of booking. But the booking was made by our personnel department who didn't pass this information on.\
Excellent course. Covered the key changes. Rather than following the course material in strict order he allowed a conversation to develop involving the whole team and covering those areas we needed to explore in detail.\
A useful introduction to ISO9001.  Albert broke the requirements down into easily understandable segments and it was clear that he knew the subject inside out.\
This is my first course of this kind. I found it to be very helpful and I believe the information I received will greatly help me with the transition over to ISO 2015. Liz was an excellent trainer and presented the course in a practical but fun way. The Delegate notes and information I now have will be very beneficial.  \
\
\
\
Excellent coarse, giving a structured approach to transition. Initially thought recap of first day on second morning was excessive, but realised its worth during the day.  One point worth mentioning - if I had booked accommodation at venue with LRQA it would have cost double and some, than the cost I booked directly.\
\
\
Course well delivered and made more interesting by the tutor. Course materials well presented and the facilities where excellent.\
Training was well presented and the trainer made it all the more enjoyable and interesting.\
I thought this course was going to be a bit hard going due to the subject matter, but the trainer brought it to life and mad the whole course interesting and meaningful\
Kevin Collins was a very enthusiastic and involving instructor, and kept my interest throughout this course.\
The course should have been targeted at a gap analysis rather than a general review\
This is the best course I have been on.  Kevin was an excellent trainer making the course interesting and easily understandable, thank you\
Joining instructions should be sent out further in advance than 1 week - alternatively send them to the delegates directly.\
Good delivery and a well structured timetable.  \
\
A gap analysis had been carried out for our management system on the changes necessary to comply with the updated standard, but this had not been shared with any of the managers in the room.  It would have made sense to share this as pre-course reading.\
Very good course content and nicely delivered, though perhaps could have gone into a bit more depth on some elements, such as environmental issues and the case study. Good preparation for the exam.  Informative and enjoyable overall but perhaps a little overpriced considering it wasn't really a five day course but four days plus an exam.\
\
Unfortunately, I misunderstood the aim of the course and it was therefore not what I expected. I should have attended a ('basic') auditor training course instead. Nevertheless, the information provided was interesting and will be of use in the future.\
The trainor made the subject matter very easy to understand as he made constand examples which helped me greatly.\
There were problems with the taxi bookings between the hotel and LRQA.  However it was a really enjoyable course and I have learnt a great deal. Gary was an excellent tutor.  Lots of student interaction and it was really good to meet people from other backgrounds.\
Good chat course. I thought the exam a little long - I read slowly so found I was pressed for time - section 3 and 4 I thought with 1 less question you would enable more considered responses.  Those in the class not from a manufacturing background struggle to think of evidence - worth considering going forwards.  Liz did a great job to prepare the class for the exam.  The course becomes exam centric rather than ISO 9001 - more weighted course work may change this. \
The course contained information very relevant to my needs. The trainer was excellent.   The amount of information provided was ludicrous for a period of 4.5 days.  The schedule for Tuesday to Thursday was far too ambitious to permit effective learning.  There was not enough time for consolidation. After a 10 hour day the evening work was difficult to complete so I got up early in the morning when I felt much more able to think. By the end of the course I felt exhausted.   What I have 'learned' is at present a jumble of incoherent facts. Hopefully this situation will improve when I have more time to review the course materials at my own pace.   For the reasons given above I am unable to recommend this course.\
The course while excellent in terms of content and delivery is, in my view, too compressed in terms of time.  Slack time (Extra days) are needed for individuals to digest and test, in their own time what has been learned for example in terms of relating audit trail and check list queries to the ISO standard clauses and vice versa.  The structure and meaning of the clause wording is clearly a critical learning point and extra time will allow more effective comprehension of their application to conformity issues.  I felt that audit report writing needed a bit more in class practice.  In my case I am personally paying for the course and I felt that more time would have been better value because my understanding and practical abilities at the end would have been greater and more finessed.  I do understand that large companies want courses to be compressed to get staff back in the office and that there is a competition issue within the training industry but for independents it is extremely expensive and needs to consider our needs.  Our reasons for attending the course are not necessarily to fulfil a training requirement but to use the course as a business opportunity (e.g Consultancy services) so we are generally not ticking a training box to show conformance to a QMS although that is a positive side effect.  On the above point, the amount of learning crammed into the available time was impressive but everyone was exhausted by the pace and intensity required to cover the content, bear in mind we had experience auditors in the room who felt the same way.    Overall the course was very well delivered and very applicable to my work.  Liz Mansfield is clearly an excellent trainer and I was very impressed by her level of knowledge and commitment.  The hotel was a bit of a disaster, the food was fine and the staff were helpful and nice but the Hotel is very understaffed and so basic service is on occasion overlooked or nonexistent and the accommodation is worn out.  We had to use the lift & fire escape lobby area for coffee breaks for the delegates which is really poor as its a thoroughfare. The classroom is OK but has no modern teaching tools.  Conference centres designed with courses in mind is probably the right way to do this. Personally I wouldn't consider going back to that hotel, course aside it doesn't meet Novotel standards seen elsewhere.  4* score on training materials is only because USB Drives with course content and electronic test forms are so useful these days.  As you no doubt know some courses allow password protected access to on-line training resources, a facility which runs beyond the course completion date so that delegates can re-test themselves at a later date.    Overall great course.  Kind Regards    Ben Duxbury \
\
\
\
\
Our trainer was not a Mr Leigh Rogers but a welsh gentleman by the name of Peter.  I have checked our reception register and interpret the surname as Anthony but I cannot be certain the surname is correct. Peter was great in his delivery expertly balancing the knowledge for ourselves to learn with his wit and humour to keep everyone alert to absorb the course material and knowledge.\
\
Friendly trainer, excellent knowledge of topic. A good mix of power point/discussion/practice to vary course application. I picked up a number of tips e.g tally sheets/ questioning techniques/check sheets to aid undertaking audits and recalling findings in order to write up summary reports which I will look to use going forward.\
\
The course was to give an insight into the new ISO standard, which it did in  a friendly and evenly paced manner. I didnot fall asleep once, and intrest was kept up throughout.\
\
\
Joining instructions had to be requested the week prior to the course.\
\
As the quality manager for a defence organisation, my objective when booking this course, was to spread the word about Quality across a multi disciplined team. Momcilo achieved this objective with ease, he is clearly an expert in the field and knew both ISO9001:2008 and ISO9001:2015 inside out, he made what could have been a dry, tiresome course, interesting for all participants. Thank you.\
The course materials case studies are quite old - perhaps not as reflective of more contemporary working environments. There doesn't seem to be a gender balance addressed across the materials, anecdotal observations or the trainer's views on the workplace and the jobs people now do within it. The course went into significant detail which was thorough, but I found it difficult to relate to the trainer's attitude to women in the workplace. \
Extremely informative course, Keith had excellent knowledge and although there was a lot of information packed into the 2 days of the course, it wasn't overwhelming. Although, I think this was due to Keith's delivery. Excellent resources provided.\
very friendly approachable trainer ensured we fully understood content\
\
Attendees on the course were a mix of new and experienced auditors and the trainer (Mr White) did an excellent job of ensuring all the objectives were met whilst being flexible enough to tailor the course to suit the needs of the group so everybody got something out of it.\
\
Both myself and one other attendee found it much cheaper to book the hotel facilities through our own company rather than through LRQA.  For myself - Full board - LRQA = \'ac\'a3140/night and through my company = \'ac\'a395/night Possibly requires some investigation and a saving to the attendees \
\
Very good course overall, learnt a lot\
The training was great. Dave is a very good professional and trainer and he definitely helped to raise awareness of the new ISO requirements to all managers.\
\
Excellent presentation of what could potentially be a rather dry subject. Trainer kept the whole group engaged and involved. Worked examples and printed material also very helpful in reinforcing the techniques and principles. \
\
great course and delivery\
Enjoyable course delivered in a very fluid way that kept everyone engaged. The content and structure kept my interest throughout and communication was excellent.\
\
\
\
The course itself is quite a lot to take in within the allocated time (albeit just an 'update' from 2008 to 2015) but the trainer did well to address everyone's main objectives with well chosen examples and explanations. Took quite a lot away with me this time !\
\
A good course with a good trainer, despite him incorrectly calling me 'Dave' during the day!\
Air conditioning in the room used to deliver the training was set at an uncomfortably low level (freezing!) No controls in the room to change it, and repeated requests to increase the temperature by a degree or two, by both delegates and the tutor appeared to fall on deaf ears.\
Great course great tutor indeed very knowledgeable and applied requirements perfectly to understand\
\
\
\
\
\
I was a little concerned that the subject of this course could lend itself to being quite a painful training experience, but this training was delivered in a very engaging and unintimidating manner.\
Momcilo (I hope I have spelt his name correctly) delivered the course perfectly well, explained every issue in detail and was able to fill in a number of gaps around the elements I was unaware of and unsure of.  The people on the course were made to feel at ease which really helped as there was great participation throughout \
Momcilo is an excellent trainer who involved everyone in practical exercises and made sure the knowledge imparted was bedding in.  Good pace set and lack of reliance on power point was a plus. Highly recommended. My only complaint was that the pre-course material did not come through at the time of booking but only when prompted by the booker a few days before. \
The trainer was fantastic and had good knowledge - really impressed !!\
\
basic training such as types of questions and characteristics of an auditor were really not needed - just common sense!\
the course book was not in line with the presentation and had to go backwards and forwards in order to understand and keep with what was being detailed at the specific time.  the trainers knowledge of the subject was excellent, and the way they instructed was that so everyone from different backgrounds whether little knowledge or extensive knowledge could understand,  I came into the course with little to no knowledge of the audit system and came out with the knowledge to be able to conduct an internal audit within my workplace effectively and confidently  \
The trainer (Dave White) was excellent.   Having been on many LRQA courses over the years, both off site and run in-house, I have to say that the trainer was one of the best.  His knowledge and enthusiasm was outstanding.  As the organiser of the course I had certain objectives that needed to be met (depending on the target audience) - Dave adapted not only his delivery style but the content of course to meet these needs.  Could not have asked for a more helpful. \
\
\
The receptionist was a bit disorganized and bossy compared to other courses I have attended.  There should be someone dedicated to the courses for the brief time that people arrive.    I had to re-park my car because I was not in the correct place!  Talk about jobs-worth!\
\
\
\
Excellent use of visual aids, flipcharts etc., the occasional use of humour was also well received.\
Very comprehensive briefing delivered by a very personable and knowledgeable trainer.  He kept everyone's interest up throughout the training and kept it very professional but with some humour thrown in, which made everyone feel relaxed.\
Delivery of the course was excellent and Keith Mythens knowledge and experience was very helpful in developing my understanding, particularly for dealing with difficult scenarios. The course contained the right balance between learning, discussion and activities. Facilities at Cranage Hall were slightly disappointing (eg day 1 coffee machine ran out and lunch was poor standard, however improved on day 2, also small insects in Mercer suite).\
Examinations could have been arranged to take place the following day. that is to say DAY 1 & Day 2 course and Day 3 Exam.\
There was quite a lot of information squeezed into the first day, I felt like I was getting a little lost, but it became much clearer on the second day.\
\
Our course tutor, Keith, was very clear, consice and knowledgable in the field of auditing. He was approachable and explained all areas very well indeed. The course has most certainly provided me with a huge starting point in beginning to conduct more in-depth internal audits, whether compliance or effectiveness audits with greater confidence. I would recommend this course to anyone wishing to begin conducting internal audits for their organisation, or to better their knowledge for conducting audits. It was regrettable that the course manual, or delegate notes folder, didn't arrive on day one to refer back to. However, Keith managed this situation well and was able to provide us with his knowledge and examples as he went along. \
Keith delivered the course very professionally he seemed to have a knack for  being able to judge who needed to go at what pace. he handled the fact that the folders did not arrive until the second day very well and adapted the courses accordingly. \
Dave is an excellent trainer.\
\
\
Trainer was excellent and ensured everyone was engaged rather than just staring at a Powerpoint presentation. Due to a last minute change in plan, the course content didn't quite meet my personal objectives but I still got a lot out of it. Also the course notes didn't strictly follow the course delivery which made it slightly hard to follow. \
\
\
\
The food provided catered to individuals who liked spicy food, although Dave did say to let him know if there was nothing to suit.  It would have been nice to have something (chips/wedges) that weren't spicy.\
Paul engaged with the whole Board very well and transmitted the required information very clearly.\
- It was a great course. Very well designed and delivered.  - The training room was arranged in 'I' shape so we had to twisted to see the screen for the whole week. - We had an issue with transfer between the hotel in Solihull and Trinity Park almost everyday. The car was too small for 4 people to fit in although we always requested a 6-seater or 2 cars. - I really had a bad experience with Crowne Plaza Solihull:    - First night - couldn't turn on the heater and the hotel staff said there was nothing that they can do. I requested a portable heater and they said they didn't have one. I requested additional blanket but didn't get one either. However, the hotel manager brought a portable heater to me on the forth night after he was aware of the issue.    - Second night - continuous music from the hotel restaurant/pub down stair. I had to call 3 times until it stopped.    - Third night - they asked me to change the room because the hotel would like to play music at its restaurant during this season so I was moved to 'quiet zone'. Actually I did request quiet zone in my booking.   -  Forth night - it was raining in my room because the ceiling  next to the window leaked. I was told that there were no other rooms available and the hotel manager and duty manager tried to stop the leak with silicone gun. After marching in and out of my room for almost 2 hours, the sealant didn't work and they asked me to move to another room.     -  Sixth day - I asked the reception to call a cab for me to the train station (I meant Solihull Train Station but I was not specific because I didn't know that there is another international train station) and the cab took me to international train station. ......and there are many other little things with the hotel.\
Excellent training course which was expertly delivered.\
The delegate notes that were handed out prior to the course needed updating.  The course was very well delivered by a very knowledgeable trainer  -  this was a informative and enjoyable couple of days.\
\
excellent teacher\
I was very pleased to be able to attend the course and it has helped me to more confidently plan for the Transition.  It has given me an overall concept of the changes and where I start with the implementation.   It seemed the Trainer was very experienced in the industry and a mine of helpful information.  I learned a great deal.  Thank you\
\
\
\
Stephen was very well prepared, and It was well presented and structured two days, which was both informative and enjoyable. Also, I must say that the facilities and the catering was excellent.   Thank You,  Martin Newell\
Felt the course notes could have aligned better with the actual slide presentation. There were several instances where slides did not match notes.  \
WAS BRILL\
This was a very helpful course for me. Liz our trainer, was excellent.  Being a trainer in my job myself, I had every confidence in how Liz ran the course and her knowledge was exception.\
\
\
\
The Course overall was very useful, it had the right amount of flexibility in terms of practical ways of learning and theory. The only thing that was negative was the vegetarian option for food on the course other than that it was great. \
Keith was excellent a really good trainer.\
\
The table space allocated to each delegate was cramped so there wasn't enough space to spread out all the reference material\
It was a very good course. My only comment (to IRCA) was about the long hours plus evening works everyday. After 5pm my brain was shut down basically.  The venue was great, with good service. However, hotel housekeeping need some improvement.\
Makes a change to have a female trainer very male dominated industry :)\
\
\
Trainer made what can be a very dry subject engaging and involving allowing a good balance of discussion within the group to prepared materials\
\
The course was very informative and will find the skills acquired,useful for the future, the trainer was also very good and engaging, and keep the content interesting.   Thanks \
\
Could of been condensed into half a day\
I can-t comment on booking, this was done directly by my company\
\
\
my fault, but the course was too much aimed at the audit process in general, rather than how to specifically audit against the AS9100:2016 and the newly introduced or changed sections\
I had hoped the workshop had gone into more depth of the changes introduced to AS9100:2016, probably the course was to too brief for what I expected\
Very beneficial. \
\
\
\
Cut the course down to 1-1.5 days\
\
\
\
\
I might have liked more detail explaining the differences and changes in requirements, definitions and terminology between 2008 and 2015, particularly the background thinking around the principles for the delivery of quality, how these were met by 2008 and how these will be met by 2015.\
\
Course was very good - Wayne's knowledge was very good and he had a good way of getting the message over and using practical examples.   Pre course - My ISO18001 was sent to the Maple Cross address so I couldn't do the pre work and didn't get the manual before the course. Would have been better if it was sent to home address\
This is the second LRQA course that I have attended. In both cases high quality trainers, materials and facilities. Would recommend LRQA.\
The enthusiasm of the trainer was infectious and he kept our attention thought the day   Following the course it appears that the new standard at last addresses the issues that have been outstanding  since day one of ISO. \
I did not receive the pre-course notes. Location was great however the hotel struggle with the \'ac\'a328 food allocation when sitting with people on a different option.\
To inject some interest into an overview of ISO 9001 is an achievement.\
\
\
\
\
I thought he pre-course info was a little light, in that I would have expected attendees to have this knowledge already. That said, it served a purpose, but I perhaps we should jhhve something more taxing as pre-course work.\
A very informative course, the hospitality was excellent and I felt there was such a friendly atmosphere at all times. I though the delivery of the course by Wayne was first class. This is the second LRQA auditor course I have attended and I would not hesitate in recommending LRQA as a first class training provider. Many thanks once again. Alan \
It was quite a lot of information on the first day, maybe it would be good to move some bits to the morning of the second day. The amount of exercises was very good and the trainer explained everything very well. The Training material should be updated to match the information used on the screen, it was sometimes not easy to find the related section in the material.\
An interesting course well delivered by a knowledgeable trainer and the naked lady was quite an amusing distraction.\
Kevin turned what could have been a very dry, boring  and dull topic into a one that kept us on our toes. Kevin drew on lots of his personal experience to provide a very good understand of issues that were difficult to grasp. Even the appearance of a naked lady in the flat opposite, another random event! was used to the courses full advantage. \
I thought that Kevin Collins was a very good, seasoned trainer. The best part for me, though, was when the naked lady appeared in the window!!! More of this please!\
\
\
I was impressed with the delivery and course content, and found it helpful, comprehensive and to the point,\
\
\
\
A really enjoyable, engaging and informative two days. Of course, the naked lady will not be forgotten!!\
\
Very good course would recommend to other establishments looking at transitioning to ISO 9001:2015\
Delighted that this course still went ahead despite all other candidates pulling out on the last minute. So it was just myself and the trainer which meant I got lots more from it that in a group environment.\
\
Presentation was well received and understood without complication or misunderstanding. The presenter was clear in his delivery and ensured that all participants were involved throughout. \
\
I enjoyed the training course but it is heavy going especially with the additional homework, if you happen to be a single parent.\
the trainer seemed in a rush to get us out of the training, and cut short discussions to move on.\
\
\
Course: Overall an excellent course.  Sarah is a very interactive trainer who was able to get all persons involved in the learning.  The role play element was excellent and something I have taken a lot of learning away from.  Facilities: Positives were hotel staff, especially the lunch restaurant, conference and concierge who were polite and helpful, and the wifi was excellent. A minor negative was that the room service was disappointing.  On two occasions my order was delivered to the room incorrectly.  Other delegates on the course had similar issues.  Additionally the selection of food available for room service which was quite limited, and some healthier options would have been appreciated.\
More beneficial than I expected it to be\
The course was excellent - Brian tailored it to suit our requirements and flexed it on both days to suit the attendees. We have had really good feed back from attendees .\
\
\
Course overall- very good. Trainer knowledgeable and very personable, she stayed later one night to assist with questions that I had.  The course materials contained a few mistakes- incorrect text, missing slides etc which is worth reviewing. I thought the exercises embedded knowledge well.   Hotel overall very nice. Room service very inconsistent- used three times and only once got what I ordered.\
\
Brian was superb, he adapted the course content to meet our needs and made the content much more digestible.   Feedback from attendees was great.  Thank you Brian\
The course was very enjoyable and David made it easy to understand. The activities within the course helped to understand and apply our learnings to a real life situation. \
I liked the interactive group exercises, as this kept everyone involved and alert, and also made it easier to understand the content of the course.\
the course content was very relevant to what I do at work, all well explained. Liz was very competent and managed the content and the group very well. great venue, easy to get to.\
The course was very well run and was a good balance between instruction and interactive discussion. The pace of delivery was right for the experience level of the delegates. There were good discussions and opportunities to explore the experiences of others. The trainer was very relaxed and created a very good atmosphere within the class encouraging all to actively participate. A good course. The facilities were very good and the refreshments well above average. The centre staff were very friendly and efficient. Nothing appeared to be too much trouble. All in all very good value for money.  Thank you.  \
\
David White has very detailed knowledge of the ISO9001:2015 standard. He was able to provide us with a clear vision of the areas we will need to address for transition. He also has a clear and helpful view of the practicalities of implementing the right processes, and understood well the context of our organisation, which is a small consultancy business.\
\
\
\
\
The venue was good, however, the location of these courses for businesses based in Manchester is not ideal.   \
Dave White was very engaging and challenged the group in a good, whilst still making it fun.\
\
The actual content of the course could have been completed within half a day.  It was extremely repetitive.  The training room was too hot and most people were falling asleep during the afternoon session.\
The actual content of the course could have been completed within half a day.  It was extremely repetitive.  The training room was too hot and most people were falling asleep during the afternoon session.\
The course content delivered on my expectations and was presented by David in a clear, concise manner that will allow for internal audits, within the business, to facilitate meaningful improvements to the overall management systems.\
\
\
\
It might just have been me but I was lost in the middle bit. I felt that the course was for people who had been on ISO14001 courses before. However the trainer was again very knowledgeable and helpful.\
High standard which is what I would expect from LRQA\
A good course that was easy to follow\
\
\
This course, and its presentation, I felt had more direction and focus on the critical points than previous auditors courses I've attended.  \
\
I would have liked a more detailed delegate pack. The trainer offered some additional material of his own, but as such a detailed topic would have liked that information more formally.\
All good\
The course was very good in my opinion. The trainer was excellent. The venue (especially the food) was well placed near Borough underground and a very good place to train. I think it helped that there were only 8 people on the course as it felt a bit more personnel that way and you could interact better with the group and trainer. \
\
The course was delivered very well and a lot of helpful information given. Thank you.\
\
\
I arrived at the Hotel car park in a queue of traffic to be met by a barrier and information relating to a \'ac\'a348 car park charge for 24 hours or \'ac\'a324 for 12 hours descending etc. I was not expecting this, was not sure I had enough cash on me, and had left my credit / debit cards at home - a mild panic ensued.  If we could agree that the primary purpose of joining instructions is to allow the student to arrive at the right place at the right time, ready to start learning with the minimum of hassle - on this occasion the omission of information relating to parking was remiss.   The joining instructions needed to say that car parking charges do not apply to those attending the course?  I did check the Hotel website in advance of attending the course, there is no information there regarding parking charges.  \
\
Booked by others\
Booked by others\
Excellent training but felt it was too expensive for what you received.\
The course was very informative, I think the interaction is excellent as you didn't lose the interest of the attendees due to them participating. Many Thanks\
I personally prefer Trainers to keep to task and not move around the slides/ training materials in a haphazard way. The structure of the training was in place and to follow the thread of learning this would have helped me. Doubtless the Trainer had the knowledge and this was evident from the quotes used.  Whilst it is good to hear about personal experience it was of no relevance to this topic. i did pick up on the Leadership elements and received some information as promised post course\
enjoyed the course not only as a future auditor, but for me to have a understanding of the audit procedure as I do get audited regularly \
\
Good course learned a lot about the LRQA systems very informative and interactive \
It was a bit rushed but that was our fault rather than that of the trainer, as we cut the length of time available to him.\
\
\
Trainer was great \
\
David did a great job, firstly tailoring the session to our specific needs.  Then taking us through the main features of the standards as they impact on leadership\
\
David did a great job under unusual circumstances; he was flexible and accommodated our every need.\
Upon arrival I was asked if I had booked my parking space, which I had not. I was told that I should have done so as there were only a few places available. Nowhere on any of my joining instructions etc did it say that those not booking accommodation needed to reserve a parking space. Luckily a space was found for me but others on the course were not so fortunate.\
\
I found the course extremely demanding time wise and felt that the learning process was not completely achieved because of the amount of work crammed into what was in effect a 2.5 day period. \
I wasn't sent any pre-course information which put me slightly on the back foot on the first day. Booking process was fine however I wasn't given any information on start and finish times. Also I was not made aware that I needed to book a parking space so I had to park at the train station which cost \'ac\'a312.00. I was however, offered a parking space for the second day.\
\
\
We had asked that the trainer be aware that we had completed transition and attained 2015 accreditation. We were therefore interested in the course being tailored to our auditing requirements. He seemed unaware of this until half way through the course when we corrected him for the third time of being in full flow re what we need to do in transition. That said there were a number of areas where he gave us pause for thought re how we conduct our audits to the new requirements. \
Dave Sherring is an excellent tutor whos subject knowledge is second to none. He made the course interesting and enjoyable whilst also keeping us on track and addressing any of our needs.\
\
Trainer was very knowledgeable and approachable.   \
\
\
\
I thought the course content and the delivery from David was exceptional, a lot of what we covered with David we actually do on a daily and weekly basis. However David gave me and our organisation a totally different perspective on the modules from which to further develop and utilize in keeping with the accreditation. The use of our own policy statements from which David built his objectives was of great use and in keeping with where the organisation needs to be in taking the organisation to the next level. \
Excellent, really enjoyed the course thanks to the trainer (Keith Mythen) and the way he presented it.\
\
\
\
\
The course was very well delivered, thank you!\
The message I've received from the course is to audit the process against the procedure. Which would not be wrong, if the procedure designed within best interest for the business. Very often the procedure designed by the people who is not familiar with a process. I have had an experience when the businesses have changed the way of internal audit, meaning do not audit against the procedures, but identify if the procedure met with a current process. And if not, then identify the process. If the current process is successful for business then review the procedure. \
Enjoyed the course, the tutor was very informative and knowledgeable.\
Excellent course, Gary very engaging, very interactive, good fun course, well delivered.\
Again Albert is a brilliant trainer, very knowledgeable and engaging\
Albert was a brilliant trainer, very knowledgeable and engaging.\
Not only I have learned more that I'd planned to but this learning process was in the very nice atmosphere ( in very nice facility and around great peoples)\
Some of the official course documentation was very dry and might benefit from a plain English review and greater use of diagrams. Albert's own documentation was much more readable (although use of apostrophes was sporadic).  Albert's presentation of the subject was great and he managed to be entertaining as well as providing relevant examples.\
An excellent facility, with a top class trainer made the whole experience successful and rewarding.\
Trainer was one of the best I have come across - he kept the focus on the training material, made it easy to follow and entertaining.   \
\
Having the course booking location moved twice and the start date delayed by several weeks from the original booking was disappointing and caused difficulty in re-scheduling other work which was planned around the original published dates. The information provided regarding the parking arrangements was poor. I was advised there was 'limited parking available' at the site, however the option to pre-book was never communicated and the process of obtaining on site permits was painful. That said, the reception staff were excellent and extremely helpful.  Overall the venue and the training facilities were excellent and very professional.  On a personal note I would like to say that Liz presented an excellent course which provided a great deal of information in a very easy to understand format tailored to the delegates requirements and existing knowledge. Her presentation clearly comes from experience, and a deep understanding of the subject and the course requirements well above simply presenting a set of course materials.\
The apparent requirement for pre-booking car parking was not clear in the correspondence - even though I did pre-book, others didn't. The venue was also changed after already booking a hotel, without a reason being given for the change.\
Shame the meeting next door was quite loud and distracting but obviously not something easily controlled.  \
\
\
\
I found the course to be very useful and the tutor to be very approachable. The Venue was good however refreshments were a bit hit and miss on timings and delivery and the lunches provided were odd with a mixture of options that did not go with each other????\
Whilst West One was a very pleasant venue, the Saint Georges Hotel provided through yourselves was a disaster.  I arrived on the Sunday night and was allocated a room that was way below the advertised standard. It was a cobbled together arrangement with stained walls and carpet, that stank of damp, the wardrobe was a set of melamine shelves with a curtain in front of it (room 1217). The internal phone did not work so I was unable to order food or contact reception.  On the Monday morning I complained about the room and, to their credit, they moved me to a much better room for the following two nights. On the Monday night I ordered room service which took 2 hours and two reminder phone calls to arrive. On the Tuesday I ate in the Heights bar/restaurant and received a mild dose of food poisoning.   The staff at the hotel were polite but obviously under trained and the hotel is badly run. The food was mediocre at best.  The cost far outweighed the totally unpleasant, not as advertised 'four star' service, that I received. I use your accommodation booking service as generally it is of a high standard and it takes the guess work out of choosing a hotel.  Please can you also contact your hotel booking service and suggest that if they recommend a venue they need to check it out more carefully in future.\
Excellent\
\
I would have liked the suggestion from you to extend the course for the same week as a number of the trainees did. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
overall very good - more information could of been available in regard to parking availability before arrival \
The trainers delivery of the course was extremely good and was easy for someone with minimal experience to follow. A very enjoyable course.\
The training was exactly what we needed, focusing on required content and tailored to our organisation where possible.\
\
The coarse was delivered in both an enjoyable, imformative and relaxed way.It could could of been a very long two days but it wasn't.\
The course was extremely well conducted.  The Trainer was excellent with a superb level of knowledge and tailored the course exactly to our needs.  Very pleased.\
The course was extremely well conducted.  The Trainer was excellent with a superb level of knowledge and tailored the course exactly to our needs.  Very pleased.\
\
Keith made the course enjoyable and easy to understand \
\
Perfect course for the team of mixed ability members I selected. Couse presented in a very hands-on style that suited the team.\
The training was amazing to improve my knowledges , audit technics,...\
I was expectinf more theoretical information, more detail explanation of differenced between ISO 16949 and IATF 16949. In some cases information was presented little bit chaotic, but maybe it was due to to short timing for training.\
In general I am very happy with the training, provided material and trainers competency. I am motivated to implement my knowledge in daily business\
The course was very informative and educational and was happy to have such a knowledgeable trainer. I would like to thank him for his help, support and patience during the course.\
I would recommend this course, the trainer was excellent, with lots of knowledge and practical auditing experience to draw from.  The course content was what I had been looking for, I finished the course with a much clearer understanding of the changes and requirements of the ISO14001:2015 standard and how to go about auditing them.  The facilities were also excellent.  The informal training approach incorporating exercises and knowledge review was great for consolidating learning.\
\
\
\
The course content was very good but was maybe a little to in depth for some of us who attended. Maybe the less experienced of us should have had pre course training. I did not have any audit training prior to this and found the content was perhaps aimed at people with more audit  knowledge. I would add that Stuart Anthony who ran the course was extremely good and did try to cater for people at all levels as far as the content would allow. Overall I enjoyed the course and will now be able to use the knowledge gained in my role with Abbey Forged Products. \
Trainer had a difficult job due to the skills mix in the room i.e experienced auditors to rank novices, in hind sight two separate courses  would have been better to fully meet the needs of the group.\
\
excellent trainer with great respect and knowledge for the topic\
As somebody new to auditing i thought the first day was a little heavy going, working thought the standard and the changes. The 2nd day was better for me as it explained more about how to set up for and how to do an audit, once i understood this the first day made more sense.  \
\
\
\
\
Overall I was very satisfied with the training provided, the detail covered and the ability to tailor the content closer to our needs. \
\
As I am new to auditing I think the course content was pitched a little too high and should have concentrated on the basics of preparing for and carrying out audits not change over from 9001 to 9100. That said this was a very well run and informative course.\
Really enjoyable 2 day course - informative and interactive. I think it worked well as we were only a group of 3.  \
\
\
Very good course\
The course was well planned in a lovely venue, and very informative\
\
\
\
\
Liz was a great trainer and kept a comfortable pace throughout.  She also related many examples to the industries in which all the course attendees worked to make it even more relevant and understandable.  However, I would like to make a complaint about the facilities.  I called in a advance of the course to determine if there was parking available at Trinity Park.  My details were taken and I was told there was visitor parking, then I was called back to say that due a change in procedures there would be no visitor parking available.  I therefore arranged for my father to drive me to the training centre and arrange to pick me up after the course had finished (a round trip of 67 miles). When we arrived all the other course attendees had arrived by car and parked in the numerous visitor spaces available and needless to say I was not happy at the inconvenience this caused my father and I, let alone the additional diesel used in my car.\
From memory, previous LRQA training courses relating to transition from one edition of the QMS standard to another have included a copy of the revised standard as part of the course materials.   Pre-course information was solely an itinerary/agenda of the course with no other details.\
Issue with the booking process as I booked for Daventry and was then told the course had to be cancelled but no explanation as to why.  When I arrived in Crewe at my first hotel there was confusion. They did not think that my company had paid for the hotel so tried to charge me \'ac\'a3100.00.  I had an enjoyable course. Brian Baron knew the subject and he was so attentive to all the trainees. I have gained lots of knowledge from this that I will be able to apply back at my work.\
Joining instructions were too close to the time of the course and it wasn't clear that pre course work was required\
LRQA delivered the course extremely well, the problem was that the content was almost purely aimed at third party audits while most of the attendees are first / second party auditors. I appriciate that the content has to meet IRCA requirements, and I need their ticket, but disapointing that it could not be flexed a bit. The venue being under referb did affect the facilities althought they did a lot to help. \
A very good course which gave a good insight into an introduction to internal auditing. Highly recommended for anybody who wants to do the Internal QMS Auditor Course in the future.\
Broken window in meeting room had been boarded up, as it was very windy whistling could be heard during the course which at some points was quite distracting.\
Overall a very good course, the practical exercises were very useful in helping me understand the key learning points. The course notes were very good will be useful in referring to for when I have to undertake audits myself.       \
Would like to have the course notes electronically \
High quality of tuition and materials. Good class size (8).\
The only criticism I can make is that of the quality of the food served at the venue. I found the choice very limited and there were not enough desserts available for everyone. some went without because of this. Apart from that everything else was perfect. Kevin is a great tutor who's sense of humour & chirpy character made the course that little more enjoyable\
Brian's approach in delivery of the course was very good and I have left with confidence to conduct audits. \
The trainer was one of the best I have ever been taught by and his subject knowledge was beyond reproach. The pre course info could have had more info about the location, such as the tube stop to use and directions from the tube stop. The booking process was rather long winded with a few errors having been made on the invoice.\
Couldnt fault the trainer (Kevin), delivered the course briliantly and made learning really easy.\
An online booking system showing places available would be an advantage.\
\
Some of the course material was obviously amended from the Quality because it still made reference to it.\
\
Great trainer, well delivered made the course enjoyable.\
\
Hotel was OK, I realise they were undergoing refurbishment so understand there will be disruption. However the food in the restaurant was really not very good - a buffet even at night with lukewarm food. I had booked dinner bed and breakfast through LRQA for \'ac\'a3140 but realised I could have got this for \'ac\'a3100 through other sites! Saying that the course was very informative and Momcilo was very knowledgeable and excellent at keeping everyone engaged and informed!\
The course was very informative and left me feeling confident regards internal auditing.\
The course was delivered very well. We had people attending this course with very little prior knowledge of 9001:2015 but they felt comfortable within the surroundings and the way the course was delivered by Olivier. Would certainly consider in-house training in the future.\
\
Most positive point was that the trainer used his training skills and experience rather than rely on power point. The power point was only used when required.\
Very good course good trainer\
Could do with some further practice questions, designed by the examining body, rather than just the questions which have been taken off past papers due to answer disputes.\
Liked the interactive quiz with the buzzers!\
\
\
Thanks for the great course.\
The food provided wasn't quite what we were expecting - there wasn't a lot of choice most of the time. The auditor course was very interesting and useful, but I think there should be more information before the course, with more than 1 week's notice. \
This course was no different to any other internal auditors course. If I would have taken an internal auditors course for 9001 I believe it would have been the same, however I paid \'ac\'a3300 more. it did not reference ISO13485 hardly and I was disappointed. \
As the course was for ISO13485:2016 I did expect that the course would go into more detail about this, and not just simply auditing, however when we mentioned this to the Trainer he did run through the new standard etc..  which was great!  It would be good to attend a course which is designed purely on the MDD directives and expectations etc..  \
Course relied very heavily on pre-course reading. Course materials could have made more use of case studies but overall pretty good.\
\
good course, very good trainer.  but course title wrong, was said to be ISO13485 internal auditor, but there was nothing specific to ISO13485, could just as well been for ISI9001.  Happily the trainer added aditional information at the end at the request of a number of attendees.\
1st class course, Paul Smith is an excellent trainer\
An excellent course which was made by the trainer as Sarah was superb.  \
\
\
Excellent course well delivered. Gave me the information I needed to go forward with the transition.\
Very good course only comment  from my own perpective is that as much as topics where all covered during the two days, leadership could have been given a little more time due to its importance.\
\
\
Very impressed with trainers subject knowledge.  Excellent delivery of what is often a dry subject.  Enjoyed the course.\
\
Excellent course delivery by Sarah Eyre.  I would like to go to her Lead auditor course in the near future.  The course content and the tutor's subject knowledge was perfect\
Excellent course delivery by Sarah Eyre.  I would like to go to her Lead auditor course in the near future.  The course content and the tutor's subject knowledge was perfect\
The training sessions, were thoroughly enjoyable, presenting the facts we need to know and providing helpful ways of implementing the changes we need to make (and detailing the bits we don't need to panic about!) The course leader had a entertaining, informative presentation style that worked well for me. The venue was a bit overpowering in some aspects (and difficult to navigate around, partly due to ongoing refurbishing work) but it was adequate.\
\
\
Course was excellent. I think an overall flow chart at the beginning showing the distinction between the strategic and operational parts would have been very useful as this did not 'click' with me until well into the second day.  Only negative about the facilities was the main car park was full on the first day and the signae to the overflow park is not very good.\
Very knowledgeable trainer who delivered the course in a relaxed and easy to understand manner.\
The course was very informative and covered all issues that were causing concern. Sarah was fabulous, such a perfect tutor!\
\
\
\
\
\
Paul was a delight, he helped put the information into context, the pace was really good and he had to put up with us rowdy lot :) Most of us had completed the ISO27001 lead auditor qualification through another provider and the experience was not pleasant so most are hesitant to do further ISO training however should we be able to have Paul as our trainer we would most definitely do it. I got more out of this course than I did a whole week for the ISO27001 and that is 100% down to Paul and his material. Thank you! ISO9001 as a whole is less scary.\
\
\
\
The course really met objectives we had- and provided a more than useful recalibration on ISO objective more generally. Albert delivered in a practical, considered and very knowledgeable way which not only conveyed a deep understanding and conviction in the material but also recognized the practicalities of implementation..\
\
\
It was useful to spend the time looking through the standard but I feel that there are a number of areas that could be improved for future delegates.  Although the course broke down the different sections of the standard, the hard-copy slides provided did not match those presented by the trainer.  I found the usefulness of the exercises very variable, whilst some required good discussion, improving my understanding and adding value, others required simply transcribing text directly from the standard onto a flip chart... Unfortunately the sections most relevant me felt quite rushed (not the fault of the trainer but due to one delegate needing to leave early).\
\
I felt the lunch was not adequate, i.e. the sandwiches very little were provided, dietary requirements were not asked. Very little limited lunch provided which was not enough to go round. \
\
The course material, did not match the slides, all of the information was not available. \
\
Highly engaging and informative course in a relaxed style with continued assessment and candidate engagement. Tutor was very personable and knowledgeable. Very enjoyable course.\
Engaging trainer - good balance between learning activities and presentation work. \
Two trainers for the week, of differing length of experience and opinions on the acceptable answers to test questions.  Both very approachable and helpful, but the conflicting views were confusing at times.  Also, we were shown methods of working then told not to use them in the exam.    I was very unwell with a severe chest infection throughout the course and found the training room very cold and rather cramped.  When the trainer stood beside the white board/screen/ flipchart, I was often unable to see the information; there were clearly too many people for the room allocated. (14 - the room would have been far more comfortable with12).    I live within 10 miles  of the training venue.  My company policy  dictated that given the close proximity to home, I could not stay in the hotel, however given the length of the training sessions and additional evening work I, and the others (resident and non-resident), were exhausted by the end of day 3.  I really think this course should be split over a weekend, it is too intense to be crammed into 5 successive days.   Also I am sure I was not the only person there who still had to deal with work-related and home issues before and after training.   By the last day I was so tired and stressed that I could not focus on the questions and know I did appallingly in the exam.  I appreciate that being unwell certainly did not help but I know I was not the only person to feel this way.  Inadequate ladies toilet facilities on the same floor as training/conference rooms.  I requested gluten free food when booking - an attempt was made to provide this, but unfortunately the kitchen staff were not fully aware of the foods containing gluten and on three days I was offered a lunch which I could not eat.  My colleagues had finished before my alternative meal arrived.  Would have expected and hoped for far better knowledge and awareness of the risks of serving unsuitable food from a venue with such a good reputation for food.  \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
exceeded expectations\
Sarah done a great job explaining the information.   I felt I gained a lot of knowledge over the 2 days regarding ems internal auditing.   I also have a better understanding of the processes used. \
I really enjoyed the course overall. The tutor was really knowledgeable and friendly, and made the course very enjoyable.  The facilities were very clean, although the room was a little cold in the morning.   \
\
\
Trainer was able to relate well to our business situation and keep interest of the group.  He had a strong knowledge of the standard and application. I think this is a condition of the structure of ISO9001, but found that the trainer jumped back and forth across sections to discuss topics to pick-up where certain aspect were captured in the standard.  This caused a little confusion for myself and made me aware of how thorough we need to be to ensure we review and capture all aspects.\
Very well run course, Sarah presented the course very well, it was a pleasure to participate.\
\
\
\
\
\
It was a small group so the time we had with the trainer was extremely useful. The trainers subject knowledge of this particular subject and the standard overall was great and complete open. It certainly got us on the right road in planning our transition route\
The course was tailored exactly to our requirements and all attendees benefited well from the clearly explained content. We feel more comfortable with our transition as a result\
Very good course, enjoy the presenter, showed an excellent knowledge.\
\
\
\
I found the course to be very informative and reinforced my thinking on how to both audit and integrate standards for Quality, Environment and Health & Safety.\
\
\
Really enjoyable course, made interesting due to having lots of activities to take part in. Very knowledgable trainer. Excellent delivery method as was there to provide assistance but gave us the space to work things out on our own. He read the room and the level of delegates understanding well. \
\
\
A very useful course. The content was expertly delivered by Dave White.\
Good delivery from an experienced trainer. Use of humour kept things light and interesting. \
\
Engaging and interesting. The rather dry subject material was brought to life and made interesting with some interactive work and encouragement of discussion.\
A very good course and all expectactions met including how this will impact company/role as an auditor.  Enjoyed the course and would definately recommend it.\
Very good trainer, the best I have had in all the courses I have attended with LRQA. David White was very knowledgeable and informative. \
\
The hotel was being refurbished which cause a little bit of confusion.  Also the room wasn't up to the usual De Vere standard.\
\
30% of the exam focussed on scenarios that were, for many, quite difficult to unpick.  More time should have been spent on analysing these.  Although the practical audit on day 4 and dummy paper were looking at this, these questions were such an important part of the course.  Tackling 3 in 40mins is a big ask.  The food provided was fresh and better than average. I would have appreciated a better choice of food than a core focus on sandwiches. Bread and pasta (I was given the latter on Day 2) zap energy and with a course that went until 6-6.30 each day, holding concentration is difficult enough.  I did ask for salads when I realised that the trainer themselves had requested healthier choice for himself and I could get it but it wasn't offered.  Given that it was LRQAs own premises, it would have been nice/straightforward(?) to have a small choice given to us at the start of the week or even day for what we wanted for lunch.  This is a high value course and therefore I do expect high standards.  A constant supply of seasonal and varied fruit would have been nice - there was fruit but I had to ask for it and then for a bowl to be topped up - this made me feel demanding when I had understood this was something that was being provided.  there was no earl grey tea - I'm not a prima donna but I do only drink black earl grey tea and as most venues supply it, did expect it. I bought my own in the end.   I have always felt that organisations that offer environmental training/auditing should lead by example - they are in a powerful position to do so.  Although course materials, travel to events and general hospitality won't be LRQAs most significant env aspects and ultimately impacts, they are highly visible to delegates, staff and others so significantly influential in that way.  Materials were single sided in plastic folders, non recycled paper, poor quality pens (didn't work and not seemingly from recycled sources?), bottled water (not clear if bottled on site ), fairtrade/organic tea and coffee, guidance on lower impact travel to the venue wasn't as clear as it might be (easy walk from station but not easy on day 1 to work out which part of station to come out of or direction to take) and there was no indication that food was sourced locally /sustainably.    These are all suggestions and not intended to be complaints.    \
Food was great, nice touch with the packed lunch and soup one day. Would have liked the materials electronic instead of paper\
Shame that the venue was a bit of a building site. But it didn't affect the quality of the training.\
It is not clear on the website that this course has a 2 hour exam at the end of it, or that it is very intensive 10 hour working days - this should definitely be made clear before you can book onto it as a number of delegates on the course including myself were not aware of this. Due to the long days I feel i was not able to perform as well as I should have in the exam ( and probably subsequently failed) so do not agree with this set up. Nick the trainer made the course fun despite the long days so it was still an enjoyable experience, if not completely exhausting.\
\
\
\
Staverton Park was in a state of re-build, the actual building work did not affect the course ( noise etc), some of the other facilities were not as good as they should have been\
The Course and Trainer were excellent and I came away after the two days very well informed of the new ISO 9001:2015 requirements.  The Venue although undergoing some major building work still managed to offer excellent facilities, accommodation & food with staff & management being very tentative.  If there was anything that  could be improved would be the training/conference room, the chairs were uncomfortable to sit in and the tables were somewhat insecure/wobbly.\
very knowledgeable and committed trainer, enhanced by the really good skills of all 12 delegates.\
the material could be ok but due to time constraints the pack wasn't gone through in  any detail so cant particularly comment\
Was a very interesting and informative course. \
\
\
very informative course - well planned and delivered at a great pace\
Hotel really needs updating, restaurant very poor.  Food on the first night cold and unappealing.  Couldn't get in the restaurant or bar on the second night but fortunately the staff on reception were extremely helpful and arranged room service for me.   The best thing about this place is probably the staff as the building althouth going through a refurb was poor, dirty carpets, blinds that don't close, paint peeling off the walls in bathroom. The course was fantastic and Momcilo was extremely knowledgable and made the course fun and interesting.\
Great course- got so much out of the day even though it was just my first dabble into the world of 9001!\
\
\
The course was extremely useful and the trainer was good at tailoring it to the specific needs of everyone there and provoking helpful discussion, keeping a potentially heavy subject matter light, entertaining and of much use. Highly recommend.\
Really enjoyed the course and Andy was really helpful. Few things that would have been helpful would be if the desks were bigger and a few of the exam papers had mistakes in the questions. \
A very good and well presented course.\
Trainer was very good and was able to adjust the material to suit the trainees.  Very well delivered. \
\
\
Excellent people's person trainer.\
\
\
\
Over all a very pleasant training experience in a safe and controlled environment, Momcello helped me to have confidence to be able to (with assistance) carry out the roll of internal Auditor.\
Although there was a lot to cover it was delivered in a very enjoyable and encouraging manner.\
\
Would have liked to see more examples of risks and opportunities for my specific business. This is new to the standard and I guess the most challenging change\
\
\
\
Momcilo is an excellent trainer, the course work flowed, there was a lot to take in, but he made it easier to understand. I have attended a few auditor courses and this has been the best one, I came away with more knowledge,  understanding and confidence \'82\'c4\'ec Thank you.\
Course was presented in way that made the learning easier to understand.\
An excellent week.   Keith's knowledge of ISO 27001 is second to none and it was beneficial having a smaller group - I can't imagine having as much depth of discussion (which I found extremely beneficial) with a larger group.   \
\
\
\
use of comic sans for the audit exercise paperwork made me chuckle\
The facilities at the hotel were the only downfall. The ladies toilets next to our training room did not seem to be cleaned all week, evidenced by the fact that the hand towels were not replenished after they ran out on day 2 or 3 of the course. Also, there were just too many sugary sweets and treats around. It would have been nice to have some savoury snacks or more fruit about.  Thanks\
The course was very well presented and the whole process from initial contact with LRQA to course delivery was a very good experience with all spoken to throughout having  very helpful and professional manner.\
\
Well presented course.\
It took considerable time and effort to obtain invoices for the course and accommodation from your accounts department. I feel these should be sent as a matter of course once payment has been received.\
Dave is an excellent trainer. He made what could be quite a serious (not very exciting) subject interesting and fun to learn! He has a wealth of experience and  was happy to answer any queries that we may have.\
\
Very good course, well presented & received I believe by all attendees\
I thought the course was very well presented in terms of the material and the pitch.  The only issue I had was the amount of information delivered within the timescale.  I have no problem digesting a lot of information quickly but felt that more time was required to cement some of the learning.\
\
This was quite honestly the best course that I have attended. I learned so much over the two days and totally exceeded my expectations. The trainer was excellent.\
All objectives met\
\
VERY GOOD\
Material could have contained more info that was presented / drawn on the flip chart as this info was very useful especial PDCA para's in the standard. It would also have been useful if there had been a matrix showing ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 9001:2015 equivalent para's as the presenter expertly and I mean without any hesitation covered all of these association during the training (WOW is an understatement) but it is now impossible to recall all of these association with any degree of accuracy.   \
Excellent support from Jo Morgan and the admin team; we had a query with charges for taxi transfer from the Crowne Plaza Solihull to LRQA Training Centre which we raised on finishing training at the end of the first day. By the time we reached the hotel (20 minutes later) the problem had been resolved and my colleague had the cost refunded by the hotel. Hotel accommodation was first class. Good mix of delegates from a variety of industries brought a lot of different perspectives to the discussion, particularly on the second day. I felt it may have been possible to cover some of Day 2 content on Day 1, which would have allowed more time for discussion at the end. \
Momcilo is a charismatic trainer and enthusiastic about his subject.\
It is a good course, and personally found it very useful.\
It is a good course, and personally found it very useful.\
\
\
Some of the questions in the course material were worded badly and were not very clear on what was being asked. There are spelling mistakes in the material. There was confusion over the location of the course.  When selecting which venue I would like to book with my line manager I initially choose Stratford Manor and it was unclear when she had booked which venue I would be attending.  I would not have chosen the Birmingham location as my first choice.\
A really well delivered piece of learning.  The delivery style was particularly good & brought what could have been a very dry two day session to life.   Momcilo excelled in his delivery and consistency in imparting the messages and engaging us in the process.  We were encouraged to think - rather than be fed the course material.  Plenty of interactive learning and opportunity to embed the training material in a 'safe' learning environment.  The venue is VERY easy to find from Birmingham International & the organise appeared seamless.  A minor niggle, there was only one bin available for food/non food waste in the eating/relaxation area at the venue.  I would like to have seen better recycling waste collection facilities.  From a learning perspective, only five stars will do, however.  \
The trainer was enthusiastic, and delivered the course in a relaxed and informal manner, which set everyone at ease, and made the course enjoyable. All information was covered well, and hopefully our transition will now go smoothly. \
It would have been good if handouts of all the ideal answers were provided after the questions and answer discussion especially as it would have been handy during the revision process.\
\
\
\
Although the course was structured, Momcelo likes to adapt to the needs of the attendees I.e. Concentrates more on some material and less if not at all on others. Whilst I see the logic of this I also believe that the course has been written in order impart information that LRQA feels that auditors require. Therefore it is difficult to determine whether I got what I needed from this course. I guess that time will tell.  \
\
\
\
\
Momcilo is an excellent trainer who delivered what has the potential to be a dull content in a very interesting and informative manner.  His subject knowledge is outstanding and he pulled on real life experience to make the course relatable for us. He prepared us really well for the exam without solely concentrating on the exam and ensuring we understood the subject as a whole. \
Trainer and content good, a few of the exercises were a bit ambiguous and less clear than I would have liked - it was hard to see how they directly related to what we were learning in some cases.\
A really helpful and reassuring course\
\
The course was delivered at a pace to suit everyone, Brian was happy to address any questions at any point during the course. The examples he gave helped me to understand the point being made and the re-caps at various points throughout the day helped me to pull it all together in my mind. \
Good course, could be compressed to 1/2 a day.\
The course was interesting and was paced to suit everyone on the course from experienced to novice auditors.  The trainer was exceptionally knowledgeable and was able to answer a wide range of questions.\
\
\
Good Course, Keith was a great trainer. Roll play was good. \
There was a couple of glitches with the course book where some materials were not included and potentially should have been that's why one star less on the material. Overall though it was very informative. \
\
Very good course.\
\
\
\
The actual room had very little table space for candidates. This was due to other large meetings taking place in the hotel. I did not receive the pre-course work, the course was booked by Horizon's training department and they cannot find any prove of them being received. I was extremely happy with the course tutor, his style and delivery kept everyone engaged throughout the very long days. Thanks to Keith!\
A very good course, well delivered and did exactly what it said.\
As I'm not an Environmental professional this wasn't probably the best suited course for me. I would have benefitted from more 14001 refresher knowledge. I appreciate that the rest of the audience would have probably benefitted more than me. That said it was enjoyable and reasonably informative.\
Thought the course was really helpful. Was worried initially that lack of knowledge of ISO14001 in general would prevent me getting much out of it, but this proved not to be the case. Instructor was really engaging, and various activities got everyone talking, and ensured it didn't get bogged down in PowerPoint.\
The trainer was knowledgeable on the subject and keen to pass this on to the group. Good reference material and handouts. Facilities were excellent.\
Would like to have seen more course notes on some of the 'softer' elements of being an auditor, e.g. being 'diplomatic', being 'open', NLP skills, etc. More course notes generally on each of the course elements would have helped me, although I realize that a balance has to be achieved.  All elements were covered by the trainer however and Albert used his extensive experience, knowledge and humor to turn what can be dry subject matter into a very lively but, exhausting week of learning, even had a laugh at times. Good course, thanks. \
Thoroughly enjoyed this course and the trainer was very knowledgable\
All in all a good course that provided all the necessary information to be able to audit ISO9001:2015 QMS. The only slight criticism was that unlike the original lead auditor course a copy of the standard was not provided for delegates to keep.\
\
\
I found the practical side of the course very interesting and easy to follow, \
\
Really enjoyable course\
\
An excellent course \
Somje of the slides used were  better than the handouts\
Paul was prompt and polite and all members of the group responded well during the day. The interactive elements were particularly useful as a couple of the delegates told me afterwards that it made more sense when they had to write up ideas onto the flipcharts.\
\
Overall great.  Liz was the key to it, she's an excellent trainer. The room temperature was difficult to control tho. \
Very down to earth and clear training technique which was really good and easy to understand.\
Very informative & some useful information for enhancing future audits.\
There was a delay in receiving the pre-course material but it was received in sufficient time once I had chased it.\
None\
pre course booklet was on glossy paper which was terrible to read due to reflections. use matt paper.\
\
The slide pack used by the trainer was more detailed than the hand out(s).  A copy of the slide pack would be appreciated.\
\
Excellent course which de-mystified a relatively dry subject.  Well presented by an engaging trainer.\
\
Excellent well paced course - and not just a regurgitation of the standard.\
I found the course very interesting and it was delivered in a way for all to understand.\
\
Enjoyed the day made the subject matter easy to understand .\
\
The course turned what could be a dry subject into a much more Business-related experience - the connection with business relevance was clear Probably a little too much time at the beginning about the Organisation to be honest but this shouldn't detract from an overall very positive experience. Exercises, though sometimes a little obvious, helped to break up the subject matter\
I guess I just expected to go into more detail of what the actual changes from Rev C to Rev D of the standard are.\
N/A.\
\
Would have liked more in depth detail\
\
I did not receive the hard copies of the pre course content or the standard. The address entered into the LRQA database was for incorrect. I did however get the course content emailed over before the course, but did not receive the standard. \
There was no pre-course information required for this course so I can't rate this section.\
Hotel not fantastic, staff unhelpful and at times rude.  No issues whatsoever with trainers or course content, very knowledgeable and helpful.\
Hotel not fantastic, staff unhelpful and at times rude.  No issues whatsoever with trainers or course content, very knowledgeable and helpful.\
\
Mr Smith came in at short notice as assigned trainer was no longer available.  Some of the participants were a challenge at times.\
Very good trainer, funny, knowledgeable. Made a very dry subject matter interesting\
Good delivery on what is a very dry subject. Kept me engaged all day. Slightly confusing as he went off to other standards and references but overall good.\
I felt the first half an hour was wasted with introductions when this was an internal course and we all knew each other.  There were a couple of attendees from our Parent Company who could simply have just introduced themselves thereby saving time\
Didn't deliver the detail I had hoped for\
\
\
Excellent course and trainer\
Well delivered course however lots of information to take in in 1 day.\
\
The trainers subject knowledge was exceptional and he gave a very good overview of the topic.\
I thought the course was well worthwhile. If anyone fails this course, it certainly won't be because of the Trainer, his ability to deliver and engage with his students. He made the interesting, entertaining (at the right level), and his obvious superb knowledge of the subject matter meant he could deal with any questions or challenges. He was able to deliver to accommodate any experience level within the room, and indeed bring everyone to the same level by the end.  The facilities were also outstanding as indeed was the course material. Unfortunately, I suffered a family bereavement the night before the course began, and feel as though I have probably let down the Trainer as the level of his investment in his students was commendable. I will certainly arrange a resit if necessary. However, he monitored my well being all week.\
I THOUGHT IT WAS ENJOYALE AND BENEFICIAL TO MY DEVELOPMENT AS AN AUDITOR.\
\
My biggest praise is that the course was not 'Death By PowerPoint'  Brian Baron is a man who clearly knows the subject area very well but he also knows how to teach the subject area, he was very confident in all he was saying due to his experience.  Brian is a very encouraging trainer, he listens to everything going on, lets the group run through their exercise and then at the end when going over it he remembers points that were made and not fully developed on thus allowing the group to realise they were onto something correct but overlooked it. This style of training worked fantastically well for me personally and I believe for everyone else on the course. Any questions anyone had he answered in full and always checked as to if they person understood or if he needed to go into more detail.   Overall I wish to say Brian was a fantastic man and trainer and that LRQA are very lucky to have him.   I hope this feedback gets back to him. \
\
Due to the amount of material covered in the course, I did not feel that there was enough time made available in the course schedule for exam preparation.  \
The course was delivered very well and the training given was both interesting and relevant. Keith brought the subject to life and managed to energise what can sometimes be a very dry subject. \
\
I really enjoyed the course and thought Keith delivered the content well. He was knowledgeable, provided lots of personal examples to make the theory more understandable and relevant.\
Absolutely wonderful course! My trainer, Albert was extremely knowledgeable in the subject area and was able to deliver the content with such humour and gusto! The course went over and above my expectations and I was able to accomplish all of the objectives I had set myself in the pre-course pack. I would thoroughly recommend the course to my colleagues. Thank you very much!  \
I really enjoyed this course.  I have previously done internal audits but never had any formal training.  I felt the role play of actually preparing for and performing an audit interview was very beneficial, and prompts questions that you wouldn't think of without actually doing the audit.\
\
An excellent course delivered by an excellent trainer.\
Perfect course to introduce the basic Energy Management Principles\
\
with the amount of people coming from Blackpool to do the course ,would have been more cost effective to do the course at the Blackpool site  .\
Whilst we were given a folder containing  PowerPoint slides, we were not left with copies of the actual ISO booklet - apparently because they  cost LRQA \'ac\'a31.00 each\
\
Only (minor) issue was trying the follow the course notes with the presentation.  This was noted before commencing the session but re-arranging the folder would have been useful.\
\
\
\
Need more practical application and practice in pairs/groups\
Having done this course 3 years ago the format of this course, where the trainer was the auditee was far superior and informative - so thank you.\
\
\
Help me understand changes from ISO/TS16949:2009 to IATF 16949:2016 and how to interpret the standard\
\
Overall impression of the course and it's delivery was excellent. The only issue I found, was that I had to contact LRQA team for them to send me the pre course reading,\
\
\
Excellent presentation and knowledge of subject by Dave White\
The hotel conference rooms were very nice and I thought the tea break provisions were good. Lunch was a bit hit and miss with some dished being great and other were not so nice. Fridays meal seemed to be the weeks left overs. I am glad they are reducing food waste though.  I thought the course was excellent and the trainer was great especially considering that many people who attended had never done an audit before or knew the standard.  The exercises were great for understanding the standard. I did think that the final audit exercise was unfair on the person nominated as Lead Auditor and perhaps that role could be swapped over at the tea break to ensure others get to try it and give the first lead auditor a break.    When i booked i didn't get my invoice through and i requested it again and it still didn't come through so i had to ask for it a second time to get the invoice to be able to pay for the course through. I don't know what happened to that process.\
only lost stars as the course handouts were for a difference course.  I consider a factor in this error may have been as the course was booked relatively last minute. Notes were promptly photocopied for each delegate and LRQA will forward the colour versions on after.   Overall I was very pleased that LRQA had managed to set up this additional public training course at short notice.\
Trainer had the wrong delegate notes, this wasn't noticed until part way through the morning.\
Really interesting course, good range of activities completed as part of the course to demonstrate our learning etc. Training materials provided were of a high standard and have proved useful after the training to help prepare for internal audits. \
\
The course was aimed at senior management and fully achieved the intended result.\
Refreshing to attend a course which wasn't predominantly PowerPoint based!\
I would have liked to have received a copy of the current 2015 standard included in this course (the laminated A5 version). I received one for the 2008 Lead Audit course attended and as this was a 'top-up' to the 2015 standard I had expected to receive a copy.  The course was well run and the trainer was excellent\
\
\
Course folder didn't appear to contain the same slides as those presented. The bound exercise booklet had additional pages which had put page ordering out of sequence (from memory!)\
\
I prefer to have a presentation in electronic form in addition to paper copy (the latter was very useful though, as we had an IT issue, but it did not stop the course, because we used the paper copy)\
Liz is an excellent trainer and has a great energy, creating a lively and open arena for conversations and actively engaging the participants. \
\
\
\
The Trainer (Liz Mansfield) had excellent subject knowledge. The style of delivery made for a relaxed and very engaging course. Content of course was well explained with good and practical examples.\
\
Felt a bit overwhelmed by the very long days. \
The course was delivered at a good pace, with team activities which helped explain the information in more practical terms.  Trainer was welcoming, always willing to answer questions and supportive.\
\
Venue was one of the worst place - the classroom was TOO COLD. The whole place feels cold even the break out area. The buffet was very average with bare minimum on Friday. For what it's worth you should consider for an alternative training venue.   Definitely the worst training venue I have ever been with LRQA. \
Excellent Course\
Good course content and well presented\
Mr White was an excellent trainer, professional and approachable.  The trainees gained from his extensive expertise on the old and new systems, providing good comparative insights which I believe is essential.   For the most part I felt a bit overwhelmed, a feeling I observed was shared by most, if not all, of the other trainees, because of the amount of information which we had to take in.  This is not a reflection at all on Mr White, but rather the sheer volume of the content of the training.  I highly recommend this training as people concerned with transitioning need to get a grasp of what's in store for them, but they would get the most out of the training if they already had a good, if basic grasp of the new system.\
With the course being all Dennis Eagle employees it would have been useful for the course to use our own documents in the practice. \
Trainers subject matter knowledge and delivery was exceptional.\
\
The parking was an issues (but you must hear that a lot)\
The content of course were covered timely and very easy going instructor \
I found the course extremely useful, but I feel that if I had not already had a very good knowledge of the standard I may have benefitted from a more basic delivery.\
There was an issue with some of the course materials on day 1 of the auditors course which delayed some aspects of the course.  The pre-course information was very basic and should have contained more about auditing and less vocabulary about ISO27001.  The facilities were good except for the parking which was abysmal.\
\
\
Delivered well with good content. Unfortunately it wasn't specific to ABP so now I'm struggling to put what was learnt in to practice as its a bit different to the training course. \
i wouldn't recommend the course only because im not in charge of organising these things.\
\
\
Lack of adequate heating in the assigned room made it very uncomfortable at times\
A good course that I was able to follow, I have had no official audit training, the training provided was very informative and enjoyed understanding what is involved behind our yearly LRQA audit.\
Kevin is a very good trainer and would recommend to others\
Kevin is a very good trainer and would recommend to others\
Kevin is a very good trainer and would recommend to others\
\
My only constructive feedbacl would be that it can be hard to concentrate if sitting down for 2 days i n the same room and there is no air conditioning. This would have improved the course for me.\
\
I found the course very good but I believe the hours were to long, 8.30-6.30 plus homework was to long a day.\
I thought the course was well delivered and covered all the areas it needed to. The 2015 upgrade to the standard almost asks more questions than it answers and probably requires a slightly higher standard of Auditor.  \
\
You need to give people clearer information at the point of booking about where the course is held. There was no option to specify dietry requirements, and neither did you ask about anything that might prevent us from accessing the course fully or whether we might need any additional support during the course. The trainer also didn't check this before launching in to the course. I'm partially deaf. I usually find it useful to give trainers the heads up about this, but there was no opportunity to do so.\
\
The venue was fine apart from the car parking available.\
The course specific content felt like at best a one day course spread over two days - so pace felt very pedestrian for the group as a whole.  Whilst anecdotes and stories can be used to illustrate a point - when they are too plentyful they can detract for the course content which happended for me personally in this event.  \
\
\
\
\
Would like to have been told the start time of the course before booking or at least after booking.  Telling us a week prior is too late to arrange childcare arrangements and potentially transport.  I phoned earlier than this to get the details which were available, if they are known then why not make available to all?  The course was detailed in thorough but lacking in detail of how to actually audit certain parts of the standard.  I am still not sure how I will go about auditing and verifying non documented procedures  It would potentially be better to tailor these courses for small and large businesses.  As part of a small business I felt I had a lot more questions to ask that would not necessarily be relavent for a large business\
\
\
A slightly lower score on the course content due to fact that sometime difficult to align trainers delivery to the structure of the course material hand out.  But positive overall.\
Albert was the perfect trainer, he was very knowledgeable and interesting and made the two day course very engaging and we all agreed we all feel we are now ready to start conducting internal audits with confidence - great trainer!\
\
I really enjoyed the course and thought Albert was very knowledgeable and made it very interesting, and we had fun along the way.\
Excellent course with good practical exercises to reinforce the subject manner. Trainer very knowledgeable.\
\
I struggled on the first day with Dave White's style of presentation in that he has copious knowledge and links any aspect of the new standard with almost all the other relevant clauses in such a blizzard of references that it was hard to follow. However either I understood better on the second day or he relaxed and started giving more practical real life examples and this helped a lot more. So overall no complaints.  Lots of biscuits and sweets - It might be useful if there were healthier options\
Excellent course - Albert was very good. Clearly a subject matter expert and has a very human touch and qualities.  Recommended. My feedback from all our delegates on his delivery style was excellent. \
\
Albert made the course fun and communicated well so we understood the course notes etc...and give us realistic examples for us to relate to \
\
I'd had my arm twisted a bit into becoming an internal auditor so I went into the training with less enthusiasm than I probably should have had.  I have been an auditor in the past but had received no formal training, so to do this course and to get the proper training and the knowledge on how to conduct internal audits correctly was great.  Albert made the course lively and fun and we all loved his stories!\
From a personal perspective, I thought Albert was a very knowledgeable, experienced and very effective trainer.  Albert engaged everybody in the training and made what could be a dull topic very interesting.  I would highly recommend Albert for this training.\
The course provided a good overview of the differences between the old standard and the new standard, however I was hoping for more 'guidance' on the best models to use, processes to use to ensure a successful transition\
\
Tim is an excellent instructor, his wealth of knowledge combined with great presentation skills made the course very easy to digest. I have no concerns in diving straight into auditing following this course.\
The trainer was excellent in delivering the course. The course was interesting and interactive and was able to meet everyone's personal objectives.  The trainer was able to help with queries we had about the new standard and explained these very well to enable us to ensure our transition to the 2015 standard went smoothly. We would highly recommend this course and trainer.\
\
\
Unfortunately the intended trainer was unwell and needed to be replaced this led to a delayed start, however owing to the Knowledge of the replacement trainer and the size of the class we were able to catch up. However we were initially issued copies of the 2008 standard to reference however I spotted this midway through second day and it was rectified.\
\
Since this course was moved from a venue in Daventry to Birmingham it was a bit of an inconvenience to go the further distance, but having said that this was offset by the small class size. It would have been nice to know about the limitation with the parking prior to the course. \
Albert suffered an illness had to be replaced by Tim, delivered the course extremely well at short notice.   Would be an advantage if teaching material were referenced to relevant section of the standard.   Nonconformance template may be extended to include a closure section, date and signature to formally record remedial action taken to close deficiencies. \
\
I felt the course would have benefited from being over 2 days.  We discussed some subjects in depth which was really useful and necessary however felt that some areas had to be rushed or skimmed over as a consequence.  I therefore did not learn as much as I would have liked purely because it was not all covered  but I would not have taken out any of the content that we did cover.   With booking I really struggled to understand why no start/finish times were available for the course until a week prior.  Had I not phoned up earlier I wold have struggled to arrange child care and travel arrangements with such short notice.  When I did phone up several weeks before the event the start time was given to me, so if they are available then perhaps people booking should have this information sooner.  \
\
This was a great course with just the right duration and the trainer was very knowledgeable and helpful. The highlight of the course was the practice audit. Personally I was expecting to be a training course for ISO 9001. However, this was a misconception from TWI's side. Overall, this was an excellent course.\
Nice location with a relaxed but professional environment, trainer encouraged feedback and questions relating to the individuals role. \
\
Some of the issues posed by John Howlett provided food for thought. The slow progress in terms of slide coverage in the early part was slow and it felt that particularly clause 7 and 8 were rushed.\
nil\
Liz was an excellent trainer and facilitator, it was evident that she was not just a Quality professional who had taken up training.  Everyone's needs were taken into account as were their learning styles.\
\
I really enjoyed this course, it gave me a great insight into ISO 9001 and I think will help greatly as an introduction before our next 2 day training course on auditing. I think all managers in the company would benefit from attending.\
Unfortunately neither my colleague or myself received any pre course information, this was a disadvantage regarding the pre course reading which we didn't know about until arriving on the first morning. However, I must praise the quick response from Catherine Eversham that I received by email in response to some admin questions e.g. start times, dress code meal provision etc. before the course. Also Albert Fessey's knowledge, delivery & application was first class!!  \
I would like to see all of our Team Leaders/Managers at IMServ undertake this course - they need to understand the principles of the ISO9001 accreditation but also the process element to the course needs to be more widely spread across out Company. It wouldn't hurt for the Exec to participate either so that they really grasp the top down approach.\
This was an excellent course that gave me a really good understanding of ISO9001 and was delivered in a way that made it easy to understand.\
A great overview that was kept interesting and enjoyable throughout the day\
\
A good course, well presented, for a dry subject the course flowed freely with the right level of input from both trainer and attendees. My personal objective was to gain an understanding of process. \
\
I did not make the book so can not comment on this.  The trainers delivery style was not to my liking and the jokes were at times infantile .\
\
The lunches at Bailbrook House had a lot to be desired - cordon bleu style - very small portions I will be attending the 5 day - Lead Auditors & staying for 4 nights - not looking forward to it!\
The food in the restaurant was unimpressive and of very small portion size. The refreshment beverages served in the breaks were of a tepid temperature. A salad buffet would have been an improvement!\
\
\
Lunch was 'different'.  Second day finished very early, but suppose this is do to some of the exercises have been completed as a group rather than individuals. \
A good overview of updates for medical devices; well delivered and easy to understand\
\
This companies mentality is to be the best we can be, not to do what is required, to beat the auditor. Overall we thought the course content was good, but we also thought there was too much emphasis in passing an audit 'If you do this, no auditor can touch you', rather than what is needed to improve the system to meet the requirements of the new standard. \
Course meet objectives although the 2016 update will have only a small effect on our processes, but good to have confirmation that we already comply with the majority of updates.\
\
The course clearly outlined the subtle changes with the new revision which was great. The next step really is to link how that impacts our situation and it would have been really good if there were some pharmaceutical case studies in the training pack which might have sparked some pharma specific relevant debate within the group.\
Very well run- informative course.  Kevin explained changes of the new standard in just enough detail.  Enjoyable course.\
Good training! Brian did a great job! Improvement areas: 1) the booking information included expected end time; 2) I had received the package sent to me by mail; 3) the material was printed in a more eco-friendly way - no need for huge binder and material printed only in one side, with too high paper quality. 4) boooking process to accept invoice; 5) regarding content, more information about being an auditor would have been nice; 6) add a 5min break in the afternoon, I was not very happy to interupt the sessions to go to the batchroom after 14:30; 7) first day was too ligth, I could have taken way more in - or more homework\
\
\
Excellent trainer that adapted to the ability/knowledge of the participants.\
Well-designed and presented course, very lucky to have good participants as well\
\
The quality and content of the material was good, but there were many additional handouts provided and emailed to us post the course. It would have been useful to have been given these as part of the pack to be able to make notes on. \
Excellent trainer, provided personal knowledge and experience which helped deliver the content \
\
\
In my opinion, the course was excellent - it was very well delivered, conducted at the right pace, with the right level of content\
The facilities were generally good apart from the occasional smell of aircraft exhaust fumes coming into the room when a plane took off from the nearby Birmingham International airport. I assume the air conditioning sucks in a degree of air from outside which then also draws in the exhaust fumes. \
Room layout not appropriate to accelerated learning. Promised syndicate room not available  hard to see projected image at times due to all round glazing on two walls.\
It would be very useful to have a formal certificate of attendance for Training and HR records purposes.\
The course overran, mainly because of people using the course as their personal question and answer session. It should be made clear that questions that are not directly related to the subject being addressed at that time should be asked outside of the course.\
\
I would like a simple side by side comparison of the two standards to help me navigate around.\
\
\
The trainer made the training course, interesting and fun.\
\
\
TIM HAD A GOOD AMOUNT OF KNOWLEDGE AND MANAGED TO KEEP ALL ASPECTS OF THE CONTENT EASY TO UNDERSTAND AND INTERESTING AT THE SAME TIME. HIS MANNER MADE PEOPLE AT EASE, AND HE KEPT THE PACE OF THE PRESENTATION JUST ABOUT RIGHT WITH A NICE BALANCE OF ITERACTION BETWEEN ALL OF THE ATTENDEES. \
The trainer made a very dull topic easily understandable and interesting. He was very engaging.\
The course was very informative and made more enjoyable with the manner in which it was delivered, lots of interaction, fun, laughs rather than just listening to him delivering it.\
\
\
I very much enjoyed this course and felt that it was the best course I have completed yet in comparison with similar courses and providers. The tutor was very knowledgeable and his delivery was at exactly the right level.\
The course and instructor were very good. The hotel/  conference facilities were also very good.  The hotel (Stratford Manor) facilities were not good by virtue of some of them not being available. The swimming pool was  being repaired which prevented the sauna from being available. There were no staff working on Tuesday to provide Spa treatment and no free places on Wednesday.  None of this was communicated to me prior to making  the booking. Had I known this I would not have been prepared to pay the full cost of staying at the hotel.  I was even more upset to discover that the hotel offers a 40% discount in January.  I registered my complaint to the hotel would told me that they had informed LRQA that the pool would not be available and as I anticipated said I would need to take my complaint direct to you.\
\
Sarah's delivery was very engaging. The exercises in groups and discussion afterwards were very helpful in improving our understanding.\
Had to ask for the joining instructions. The course was very well delivered. Albert had to back up the material with additional information through, that wasn't in the folder though. Maybe a course content review is required.  \
Thoroughly enjoyed the course.  Sarah was knowledgeable, enthusiastic, engaging and this made for a good atmosphere to learn.  \
Hi  I thoroughly enjoyed this course and the content was very relevant and reflected the scope advertised.   Albert is a knowledgeable and enthusiastic trainer. The use of graphical representation and his additional handouts were relevant and helped with applying context to the theory based files provided. A good combination.\
I found that the course constantly referred to changes between ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 9001:2015. I found that because of this, the trainer felt the need to constantly switch between the two versions. I was not previously aware of the details in ISO 9001:2008. As a result, I was left feeling a bit confused as to which requirements were in ISO 9001:2015.\
I really enjoyed the Internal Auditor course. I felt that it helped me to further my knowledge about audits: how to conduct them and how to create a report. Momcilo was really great at giving us a good understanding of the course and also gave us sufficient practice with a pretend audit.\
\
\
\
The course was a little strange as I was the only delegate, but the tutor and I were able to discuss things in much more detail and make the conversation more relevant to my own knowledge and experience. I was able to talk through areas of particular concern/interest. Brian was able to adapt the course well to the slightly unusual circumstances. Overall a very worthwhile day.\
The trainer was very enthusiastic and engaging. His approach kept me interested throughout.\
\
The course was very well conceived and well delivered. Momcilo created a comfortably environment for learning. The balance was right and engaged all participants in the process.   \
\
A very clear and precise training course delivered with the appropriate degree of examples and handouts to reinforce and emphasize pertinent elements or sections.  Welcomed breaks and lunch were well timed and appreciated..   \
Very good training, as always delivered by the LRQA\
I did not personally book the course but it all seemed to be very efficient\
\
\
First class course, although the workload was heavy going Wayne made it easy to understand at every stage. Very knowledgeable, able to answer all my concerns and questions raised.\
\
Would have been useful if the course (which was delivered in house) could have been a bit more bespoke/specific to our company.\
I thoroughly enjoyed the course - the only thing I felt was not covered was report writing.  Mike is an engaging and knowledgeable trainer - his creative approach and ability to think on his feet is great.  Unfortunately, the pre course admin materials were not received by myself so this left me a little behind the curve for the first few exercises. Also, other than the original confirmation of booking and the PO, I did not receive any other joining instructions - map, looking forward to seeing you etc.  The venue and facilities were excellent and the staff and service at the hotel second to none. \
The knowledge of Mike McDonald on this subject made learning easy. He was aso very engaging.\
Overall great experience, fantastic coach!\
A great course - well presented, lots of opportunities to ask questions and a very facilitative tutor.\
The course and the trainer were both first class. Mike was both professional and approachable with a vast knowledge on the subject. The only problem I found was I booked the course before Christmas but i received no pre-course reading material, it wasn't until I made several phone calls to confirm I was on the course that anyone mentioned I should have had the reading material so i did not receive it until the Friday before the course started on the Monday.\
I have many years of experience of the 9001 framework, and have had lead auditor training etc., so my competence to attend the course was appropriate.  This seems to be the only course offering this content which I feel is a much needed subject, but it seemed to be the first one delivered and the content and delivery were confused and jumbled, moving back and forwards through the slides.  I left feeling more confused than before the course I'm afraid.  It needs to be a day course I believe, and with time for the attendees to perform some 'tasks'to verify our understanding? \
I enjoyed the way the trainer makes complicated things more comprehensive, understandable and lovely.\
Found the training really beneficial and the trainer was very professional and helped in the understanding of 9001 & 27001.\
It was disappointing to find only one other person on the course as this meant peer discussion was very limited.\
\
Liz Mansfield made the course easier to understand. Her examples for processes and her delivery was brilliant. I highly recommened the course.\
A very informative and useful course, delivered well by Liz.  Thank you very much.\
\
\
\
\
Trainer very engaging and delivered content in an understandable way.\
\
\
Lots of useful information.\
Some of the content seemed detailed beyond the need to actually undertake the examination.\
\
The course was great, however, the facilities and standard of the food provided throughout the course was consistently bad.\
This is a very intense course necessitating long hours in the class room. Paul kept us all thoroughly engaged throughout, very impressive considering he was the only trainer. He patiently dealt with our endless questions and concerns about the subject, and enabled us to work well as a team.  The venue was superb, and my personal dietary concerns were very well catered for. I'd have no hesitation in recommending LRQA for future training.\
Paul was without doubt very knowledgeable of ISO 9001:2015, his whole delivery of the course was very professional but at the same time delivered in such a way that all of the course attendees were made to feel very welcome and relaxed.    \
\
I have undertaken many training courses over my working life and this course was without doubt one of the best I have attended.  Everything about the course was done well - the facilities were excellent, the trainer first class and the course schedule was just right.  A good range of course attendees who all integrated and fully engaged made the course thoroughly enjoyable even though the days were long.\
\
The trainer (Albert) was clearly extremely knowledgeable about the subject at hand, as well as the ISO 9001 standards which he was able to quote from memory. The training was delivered professionally but in a manner that made it enjoyable.\
Didn't receive the pre course pack, but was given a copy by Albert. Course was very informative and well presented, thanks to Albert for making me feel at ease. My only criticism would be the volume of content over the two days. I would have liked to spend a bit longer on certain aspects. I feel that a 2 day course with the amount of information to take in is a bit of a stretch.\
\
\
I failed the exam despite meeting the required standard during the week from all tutor feedback. It was an intense week.  THERE WAS NOT ENOUGH TIME TO COMPLETE ALL SECTIONS OF THE EXAM. AT LEAST 50% OF THE DELEGATES FAILED WITH ALL SAYING THERE WAS NOT ENOUGH TIME TO COMPLETE ALL QUESTION SETS.\
\
\
On the training to little details on main changes and what to do to be fully compliant however training materials good. \
My knowledge of the standard was 'A little Bit' so I was very pleased with the input of the trainer and the course members to enable me to embrace the transition. Tim was very good at interfacing with the group and his experience was key to the course content (I think that this was the first time that AS9100 Rev D transition was delivered to a course). This is the first time that I have attended a LRQA course and was very impressed (Our company have BSI as their accreditation body). Well done to all those involved.  Bill Maxwell Director Aircraft Spares and BTP\
\
\
It was a good top line overview of the main requirements and changes with good interaction and group involvement. \
The course was very helpful with some good ideas of how to approach addressing the changes and new elements with in the series. In terms of my course objective, the course meet those although also ( in a positive way) highlighted area's within our management system which I need to become more knowledgable, in  particualar where and who considers Risks within each process.\
Good course, very well delivered by Tim. The day flew by - always a sign that a course is engaging and enjoyable.  A nice welcome from the reception staff. Lovely training facilities and rest/recreation area. The best I've encountered in fact.  Thank you!\
I found that Horwood House was difficult to get to, especially in the morning. I just made it in time even though it wasn't that far away.\
I thought Albert was very knowledgeable of Auditing and he answered all of the questions posed to him. Albert had a very good, engaging style of delivery which kept me interested and entertained.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The course, content, facilities and trainer were faultless. Although I have many years experience in Quality Management I attended the IQA Course to re-assure my knowledge and further improve my capability. The course will enable me to achieve this for the future.\
Signage outside facility in car park confusing, implied there was a separate reception for the conference facility but there were no staff on hand to tell delegates which room course was being held in. Had to go back to main Hotel reception.  \
Training helped me a lot understand how audits and reports work however would be good for a test to do on your own at the end to determine how much you have learnt.\
\
\
\
\
\
I had done the ISO 9001 Lead Auditor transition last year with LRQA, so some of the handouts and information was the same, however Sarah was very good and I picked up some really useful information to use in my next environmental project.  Excellent food at the venue! \
Could you please pass on a big thank you to Brian Baron the tutor. His delivery of the subject matter and interaction with the class was superb. \
My company is certified by LRQA in more than 70 countries. I will never recommend LRQA services. I will advice corporate level of my company that LRQA is selling a product that is not corresponding to what are saing. \
\
\
Excellent course.\
\
Enjoyable course\
Sarah was excellent, and managed the course well\
\
Paul was confident, friendly and very knowledgeable. he put us all at ease and answered any questions we had in great detail. his knowledge of ISO standards was impressive. Delivery of training was great and worked for me as he used a combination of learning techniques.\
Excellent training course delivered in a professional and open manner. Good opportunity to ask lots of questions and the trainer gave several analogies throughout. My only criticism is that I (personally) would have benefited from more live examples of typical scenarios i.e risk analysis (we covered one per section but an additional one would have satisfied).\
Room was sectioned into two and group next door were very disruptive/noisy.\
I cannot comment on the booking process as this was done by my Line Manager and Procurement team. However the pre-course materials were not received until a couple of days before (having booked months in advance), only after it was chased.  Also the course when attended in conjunction with the 'Preparing for ISO9001:2015' course covered the same subjects with little variation, so little was gained from this course. \
Training was booked via my Line Manager and Procurement Team, so I cannot comment on the Booking Process, however we did not receive the pre-course information until last minute (having booked months in advance).\
I enjoyed the course greatly and found it both interesting and informative.\
Good course. My knowledge of 2008 standard was reasonably high and this explained the new requirements well. Confirmed I was 'heading in the right direction'.\
Really good trainer. Liz has excellent knowledge and put things over clearly. I thought the first half of the day was too distracted by certain delegates, and this meant the second half was rushed. Otherwise really good\
I found the course content to be basic. Slides pointed out the differences in wording however little context was given around the differences or how to meet the updated requirements.  Some of the other attendees did not seem to understand the current (2012) version of the standard which meant that time was not effectively used and group discussions were not conducive to understanding the updates to the standard.  The pre-course information was incorrect (wrong building) causing a delay in the start of the training.   Delegate notes did not match the slides in places.  My personal objective was to check that we were on the right track with our transition plan. From the training, I believe we are on the right track however I did not learn anything extra from reading and performing a gap analysis on the standard by myself.  I found the trainer to be focussed on 9001 updates rather than 13485.   The trainer at times changed the subject rather than answering a question or drawing a conversation to a close.  The trainer read from the slides and would then sometimes question whether a clause had in fact been updated.  The trainer was very friendly and accommodating which helped make the training run smoothly.\
Venue details provided were not correct. Explanation provided by trainer via email;  'I have checked with the office and it transpires that they did inform them of the revised arrangements for the two courses (cancelling tomorrows and booking today\'82\'c4\'f4s instead) but an error occurred in the venue not updating their spreadsheets to this effect. We have instigated corrective action to address this (more \'82\'c4\'f2on-the-eve\'82\'c4\'f4 checking and confirmation will be put into place).' I feel this is unfair and is not the case as I had booked onto this course weeks in advance so it was not a last minute course to cover a cancellation.  Course was extremely basic, did not appear to be an in depth look at transition, rather, a very basic overview of the 'new' standard.   Slightly worrying that the only Post Market Surveillance which was discussed was customer feedback questionnaires, this is not the full extent of PMS. I feel the trainer should have made this clear, I doubt an auditor would accept customer feedback questionnaires as appropriate PMS.  Felt that the knowledge of (most of ) other course delegates was not to the same level as my own therefore felt uncomfortable stating that my objectives had not been met.   Venue was nice, once the correct room was found and the food provided was enjoyable. The trainer was personable, however, I do not believe the level of the course was as it should have been. The course felt more like an introduction to ISO 13485. It did not appear that a certain level of knowledge of ISO 13485 was required prior to the course, therefore those of us with a thorough understanding of the current ISO 13485 were left disappointed by the very basic approach to the 2016 standard.\
The trainer was very passionate about ISO14001 and this was evident throughout the training. His explanation of things was also very good.\
I had already a good understanding of the ISO9001 standards and attended to gauge an understanding of the updates.  However, given the extent of the updates, I am not sure if a full day course was required.  That said, it was helpful to discuss and interpret the standards with my colleagues.\
\
\
\
The information pack for the fictitious company, used to do a trial audit, was spiral bound, making it a little awkward to use.  Ring bound would be better as individual pages could be removed and laid out for easy comparison between them.  This would also be more realistic.\
The trainers knowledge was very good.  LRQA waited a long time to send the pre course work.  I would have liked to receive this earlier.  In addition the course materials were clear although I did feel we did loose some training time getting hand overs handed out.  It is my feeling these could have already been added to the course materials.\
Hotel a bit dated and out of the way in the country\
This is a busy 5 day course, with a lot of material to be covered. The LRQA trainer, Keith, is clearly very knowledgeable on the subject, and his personable approach ensured that complex components were delivered in a clear and effective way. This course requires pre-course work, evening exercises, and contains a number of team and individual exercises - all of which helped prepare for the exam on the last day. Very enjoyable. \
The trainer was very good.  Standard of delivery was very good and would use him again.  Gave only three stars because the speed could have been higher. I realize that the level of experience varied amongst the delegates, but still we could have moved on quicker.\
Suggest that course hand-outs are given out in a pack - I found the hand-outs slightly difficult to place within the course notes folder as they are an integral part of the reference material.   Having completed the case twice now I can say that this second time was better as the format was more inclusive and learning 'between the groups'. There was more cross fertilisation of the material with a focus sharing lessons.  This is important in this type of course.   Relaxed, informative course - very enjoyable. \
\
\
good course thankyou\
\
\
Very informative course delivered in a structured way. \
Overall excellent course - very well delivered with excellent knowledge and delivery of the material.\
\
\
I don't understand the justification for the exam scoring system regarding giving people a score of 0 for a NC deemed not to be an NC but can get 7 points for the other way round, especially when there is position where auditors tend to be over lenient\
The trainer did not deliver the course content to the plan.  The point of the course was to help attendees understand the changes and prepare for transition to the 2015 standard, but it felt more like a course on environmental issues and problems facing the world.   There was too much time spent on an 'overview' and not enough time on the major changes to the standard.  In particular 'Leadership' was rushed through in the last hour, even though most attendees acknowledged this as the biggest issue facing them. In summary, I learnt quite a lot from this course, but not about the things I was there for.  \
Could have done with stronger delivery association between the slides and Delegate Pack/folder (ie as progressing though slides be actively prompted to also turn to corresponding page in folder). To clarify, Liz's overall delivery was great, the above simply relates to myself being unfamiliar with the Delegate Pack and sometimes making notes on pages to then find out the relevant page was further on.\
\
Very impressive knowledge of the subject. Marek was easy to approach and happy to provide guidance outside of the core material which was really, really helpful. I would recommend to any colleagues.\
\
The room was extremely cold\
\
\
The food in the hotel was poor and they had often run out of items.  The instructor was extremely knowledgeable and very good at putting the information across in an understandable manner.\
Good training which gives a structure to prepare and report audits\
We were a small training group of 6, all with similar experience and level of ability in relation to internal audit. The first day consisted mostly of being split into pairs to work however, as a group we all preferred to be kept to work together in order to gain a wider experience. The trainer was happy to listen to our request and agree. The second day worked much better being kept together to work more as one group.\
Generally good course content. Some areas felt a little rushed and we ideally needed more than 3 delegates in order to get the most out of this course. I do feel that it is a good introduction to the risk management process and should been seen as useful for quality managers and other departments.\
\
\
\
The pre-course information and the website indicate only an address and a post code for Sat Nav. Unfortunately neither give you a close enough indication of where to find the LRQA building - a brief description of landmarks to look for would have helped to prevent wasting 20 minutes looking for the building. e.g. directions from the Tarmac or Allianz buildings for example.\
We parked a fair walk from the centre as we were in a different building to that which we were advised.\
\
Excellent knowledge of the subject, and well delivered course. Course programme fairly intensive! Should allow practical implementation and assessment of the standard requirements - only time will tell!\
The course was very good and I really enjoyed it. David is a very good trainer and I have learnt a lot from him. I would really recommend the course and the trainer to anyone.  I had no problem to understand the standard and it was a good fun. However, in my opinion  2 hours to complete the final exam was really short time. The exam shall confirm if the student understands the content of ISO 9001:2015 and how is comfortable to use it. It was possible to answer all of the questions only if you knew all of the answers straight away, if there were any doubts, there was not much time to think through. In my opinion there should be at least 2.5 hours for the exam, ideally 3 hours.   Also there was one question on the exam regarding external origin[7.5.3.2] that  wasn't covered or mentioned during the training course. I could not find any information about it in our training material or my personal notes. In my opinion any important subject should be included in training material and covered during the course. \
Theoretical content was good but it we had to rush through it thus I feel I could have got more out of the training. The exercise was very well designed and kept us engaged, I also learnt a lot during activities so would like to see more of that. \
Lot to take on Board, but felt the course was well structured and very effectively delivered.\
\
I found the course itself very interesting and the trainer excellent!  Unfortunately did struggle with some elements of the course as my current job role is so different. However, what I have learnt I can put to great use, so thank you!\
The pre-work and agenda issued ahead of the course commencement related to a different course of only 2 days duration and without and reference to Health and Safety.   I would have liked to spend more time during the three days looking at the 14001 and 18001 standards and less time on the importance of auditee rapport and the overall approach.  This maybe a personal learning preference but I think a foundation from the standard is necessary (an exercise structured to look at how a typical EHS policy and procedures met the standard would have been very good to introduce here).\
\
\
Sarah was one of the best trainers I have ever had.  Her industry knowledge and ability to translate this into meaningful training was really appreciated.  Sarah is a real asset to LRQA and I would recommend colleagues to seek training from Sarah in the future, she was great.\
Trainer - the course was mainly presented by Mom\'83\'e7ilo Kova\'83\'e7evi\'83\'e7, with Albert Fessey observing and presenting a couple of parts.  Both were very knowledgeable and excellent presenters, but the trainer feedback above is primarily about Mom\'83\'e7ilo as he presented the bulk of the course. He was superb - it is an intensive course and delegates might earily become tired and disinterested, but Mom\'83\'e7ilo was totally engaging, keeping us all interested and alert. The mix of learning activities helps with this. Really excellent trainer. \
The food at the hotel was quite poor. Unusual combinations at lunch and for snacks, the only evening meal I ate in the restaurant was also poor.  I also had issues regarding the settling of my room bill, which was paid by EDF separately rather than through LRQA.\
\
The course was very well deliverd, Momcilo is a great trainer. Would definitely recommend.\
\
Very good.  Paul had a clear, engaging and practical style. We now how much more confidence about implementing 13485. As well as the theory, it was useful compare some real examples amongst the candidates.   This could be one area that could perhaps be expanded e.g. explicitly asking candidates if they were willing to bring along their Quality Policy, one example risk, one example procedure, one example CAPA etc to compare best practice amongst the group.  The venue was good, with the proximity to the train station being very convenient.\
Very useful course and interaction with other delegates was enlightening and useful. Appreciated the interactive approach taken although a few more practical examples of problems/pitfalls to avoid would have improved it more. Excellent environment and enjoyed the approach taken in delivering the course content.\
The course was impaired with having only three attendees (not including the LRQA staff member) of which two were from the same company. Sharing of ideas and alternative viewpoints were therefore limited. In hindsight, having attended the two day implementation course, I am not sure I gained great benefit in attending the appreciation and interpretation course.\
Course was very informative, it is difficult for me as we have a QMS that has to incorporate GMP, FDA and cosmetic expectations and it may be useful sometimes to indicate where the standards meet or maybe diverge.  It is not a major comment but I was aware at some points that while what was delivered was true for a solely ISO13485 implementation there may be some concerns from a GMP perspective. That said I really enjoyed the interactive nature, and while slide driven it was not death by power point, the delegate notes are a true support tool and the sessions encouraged understanding through doing and cross team discussion which allowed real insight.\
I found the small group setting (there was only 2 delegates) beneficial as I felt more comfortable asking questions and felt is was a more personal experience.\
\
\
very good course with a couple of reservations: - At times the trainer went very quickly  - The role play seemed a bit pointless given we have all previously attended a Lead Auditor course\
\
Although every companies adoption of the 2015 standard will 'look' different, I would have benefited from some desensitised real world examples of 'how' other companies/QSM's have structured thier documentation and what it looks like, to help people new to the role, who may only just be grasping the fundamentals of the standard get some ideas and context as to what is acceptable and what will get them over the line in transitioning.\
Would have welcomed a bounded A5 copy of the standard for future use, but otherwise a great course! \
\
This was a useful course and provided us with invaluable information on preparing for audits under the new ISO9001 standard.\
I appreciate that the course had been condensed into a two-hour slot but I feel that too much was crammed into the time period allotted. It was often confusing at times and some areas seemed to be repeated and delivered simply in a different format. The course notes are also very difficult to read in places as the print is too small. I think the course would benefit from including training on how the new standard is applied in practise.\
The course met all my training objectives and needs and the training officer was very knowledgeable. I would definitely go on another LRQA provide course\
\
\
Some of the standard course notes were not up to date so additional slides / notes were provided by Mr White\
\
Great course, thought provoking and well delivered.\
\
Asked the question why the laminated ISO 9001:2015 standard book is provided to delegates on the lead auditors course but not on the Transition Course.  No answer was provided but I think Kevin was going to aske the question from HQ\
\
\
It would be beneficial if the conversion course was across 4 days rather than 3. The fourth day could be used for a review of knowledge learnt the previous 3 days and the followed by the exam. \
I can honestly say that I did enjoy the course and Dave was particularly easy to understand, extremely knowledgeable and made the content interesting as well.  The only reason I did not score it 5 stars was that I felt that for my specific situation it didn't quite match entirely however I do understand this is difficult when on a group course and I did learn a lot during the 3 days\
\
\
It would have been helpful if the trainer has kept to the order of slides in the hand out .  He also used slides not in the hand-out .\
Loved the communication of the new conceptual and cultural emphasis\
The course was thorough, well structured and delivered.  Paul was a fantastic teacher and will be recommended to all.\
Nick Gerrard, very professional, excellent ambassador for LRQA!!\
\
I enjoyed the course and it met all of the personal objectives. Thank you.  The only places where I have scored less than the full score are because: Overall course - felt a bit rushed, especially towards the end.  There is a lot of information, and a 3 day course with the exam on the morning of day 4 may alleviate some of that pressure to fit everything in. Quality of training materials - (unusually for LRQA training) there were a number of times when the information was missing from the binders and copies had to be made. Facilities of the training room itself were fine.  There were a number of much larger courses happening at the same time, which meant a lot of people about and a lot of noise associated with that, both during the day, and in the hotel at nights.  There was also impact on the carparking and the demand on the WiFi.  Not LRQA's fault but maybe a consideration when selecting and booking venues (Newcastle Novotel in January was much better in separating out concurrent conferences). \
Paul Smith -  presenter  extraordinaire \
The course felt a bit squashed in to the 3 days. After 10 hours in the class room, having 2 hours of home work in an evening was hard work. There was too much to take in for it all to sink in. \
Paul Smith -  presenter  extraordinaire \
I was booked on this course at two previous dates and locations (closer to home) and both were cancelled.  Holding training courses on Thursday / Friday are not always the best days. \
Ran well and very informative.  Loved the informal setup and felt it was worthwhile and productive.\
\
Liz Mansfield delivered the course very well and her approachable manner created an ideal learning environment .\
Great course with based-real examples and additional training material was fantastic. \
We received the course notification late.  Venue location was not so easy to commute to for the starting time. \
\
The hotel left a little to be desired. The rooms were very badly lit, which made evening work difficult. Having a 3 course meal at lunch time makes learning difficult. Even at the end of the week the staff struggled to know how many of us there was. The other great idea that they had was to put our tea and coffee trolley right outside the lift and then they wondered why there was nothing left when we took our breaks. It just looked like it was there for all guests at the hotel.\
I thought it was well structured and supported by information and experience.\
\
\
\
because we were set up in teams and both of my team members were very experienced auditors already I felt I got over shadowed \
\
Well delivered course by a knowledgeable tutor, really enjoyed the course\
\
Small group exercises, always performed in 2's, meant that the opportunity to discuss the subject in a wider group was lost - particularly as feedback from the groupwork seemed a bit haphazard. When it was suggested to the trainer, after the afternoon coffee break on day 1, that we change the approach to groupwork as it was becoming repetitive his only solution was to change partners for folk. Moving to 2 groups of 5 and feedback through flipcharts or something would have been more engaging.  Also, when the trainer was challenged on an answer to one of the questions in the small quizzes, the response of 'well that's what it says here' rather than explain and justify the expected answer was disappointing and not what I would expect from an LRQA 'expert' on the subject.\
The course did everything I wanted it to achieve and the trainer Albert Fessey pitched and paced the course perfectly.\
Kevin was a lovely guy and obviously very knowledgeable. The group had mixed experience and I feel that Kevin missed out on covering the basics which meant myself and my colleague struggled to understand some of the tasks. Although this was a refresher course for me I couldn't remember some of the terminology and this wasn't covered. The course also seemed to jump around and not cover everything I feel we were meant to.\
Overall a well delivered and polished transition course that re-affirmed my personal learning objectives with the ISO standard and opened my vision going forward to the changes and progressive nature of the standard.\
Informative and easy to follow \
\
Should have gone into some of the sections of the ISO standard and how they apply to our facility\
The session auditing a senior manager was a complete waste of time and had no value whatsoever. The case study material was vague and the objectives were not clearly communicated.\
\
The balance of 'lecture' style delivery and the exercises were very good and well balanced and were very supportive of the learning. Excellent trainer too.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent trainer, very well presented\
Excellent trainer.\
Excellent trainer, worth the money\
\
The facilities were not very good and it felt like the hotel were slightly disorganised.  The training was excellent however the pre-course material was slightly wordy and difficult to read.  It may be worthwhile converting some of it into powerpoint handouts.  \
Course, venue and trainer all of good quality.  Only negative would be the length and intensity of the 3 days.  By the time delegates got to the hours homework we were more or less past it\
Training was well done. Very useful opened my eyes on who is responsible to close a CAR and method to achieve this.\
great couse, delivered brilliantly delivered by Nick! \
Ezxcellent trainer, very personable with an absolute wealth of knowledge and experience - he made a sometimes 'boring' aspect of work extremely interesting.\
\
It might have been a little more tangible to include paragraph references in some of the presentations.\
VERY GOOD \
The course was very insightfull and delivering the info we needed. The trainer was really very well prepared and able to fit the contents depending on audiences' questions/requirements.\
Well presented course with appropriate level of participant /team involvement\
Well presented course with appropriate level of participant /team involvement\
Very informative and personable approach to this essential training\
\
Contradiction between the ISO14001:2015 and course materials on the EMS model - this should really have been amended prior to the delivery of the course. \
\
\
It would have been beneficial to have practice in completing some internal audits to apply the new skills that were identified in carrying out audits. Role play could be beneficial for this course. The content of PRIMAL & the Process model was excellent and has already been put into use.\
\
Candidates struggled with the content of this course thinking it was better suited to Management but it made the training for internal auditors easier and it all fit into place.\
The trainer was Dave was excellent! I am fairly new to auditing so he made the transisition training very easy to understand and also gave me some good ideas and valuable skills i can use in the future\
Excellent content & delivery. Ensured that Management were aware of their responsibilities.\
A very well structured course \
\
The course objectives did not fully achieved my requirement.   The Couse was a informative  learning curve.   Not fully appropriate for my needs.  Misjudgment of course content advertised.\
\
\
\
\
Excellent course with an excellent tutor.\
Took a while to get used to Brian's method of teaching but enjoyed it. Minor Improvements would be stationery (more suitable ie A4 lined paper rather than small note pads and more of it) and catering (which was often strange, repetitive or rehashed). \
\
Liz was a very good trainer and I learnt a lot from her\
great course, Liz knew everything there was to know\
\
The Course materials wery good but I regret I did not tried to buy the ISO 9000 standars for 2008  and 2015  in the smaller format, we used them under the Course but gave them back. Can I buy them somewere, I have not seen them in Sweden?  Fine participating people in the group! And a very competent Theatcher! Next time I go to UK I will try to choose a Course I can reach by an Airline, the highways are so crowded!\
Very good course well delivered by the trainer.\
Good introduction/summary of the changes\
Excellent course and trainer - highly recommended.\
\
\
Training did overrun somewhat so timing was a bit of an issue.  Not sure that 2 hours is really long enough to cover the subject completely adequately but the course was still very useful.\
\
Mike McDonald came across as having a very good knowledge of the subject. He made the course fun and interesting.\
Mike is very helpful and very knowledgeable.  He made me understand the QMS internal auditing system. \
\
There was some confusion with the course material - some sections were out of date (regarding whether Section & Support fell under Planning or Doing).   Also I felt there was a lot of Flip Chart Work - it would be good to build in more variety to the group working sessions  \
Some of the course example material would have been helpful to take away, but was retained by the trainer.  I was able to get clarification on a number of issues. Thank you Nick.  \
\
\
Tim was really informative and gave practical examples of what was required to meet the requirements of the new standard.\
\
\
Keith was a very good trainer for this subject, he kept us engaged and informed throughout the whole course and it was fun and informative.\
\
Very good course with excellent trainer!\
It was easy listening to take on board the information being delivered. Questions were answered as raised. It was a shame there  were only 3 attendees but that has it's own benefits. Pre training material was fine, however it may have been useful to have the case studies before hand to understand the background material. I look forward to receiving some of the template materials\
Although the trainer was very knowledgeable about the standard she had no knowledge of our company and wasn't able to address specific questions. I also felt the trainer could listen more. Even though it was explained several times that an audit prep sheet based on the PDCA cycle is used as part of the internal audit paperwork we were continually told to consider using such a document when completing audits. In the initial stage of the training Sarah wrote down what each of us wanted from the training but at the feedback stage she had misinterpreted some of the expectations. \
The course was tailored to our company and the trainer encouraged questions and points for discussion throughout\
The plan was initially for Tim Sparey to complete training on the 11th and 12th. I found the delivery of the two trainers very different and the message given. Tim being very supportive and identifying areas for improvement but also stating to management that our situation was good and we were in a good position from what he was told. On the 12th we had Sarah Jones. Her approach was very different. She was very knowledgeable in the topic but sent the message that we had much work to do to transition to the new standard. So I was a little disappointed by the end of the 12th as I felt that management had left the training feeling that little needed to be done. In reality I am quite unsure what the truth actually is. Overall, this course provided information to the leaders of the company which was the objective of the course.\
I feel that if we had done an actual FMEA from start to finish it would have been much better and would have made the course much easier\
really helpful trainer, good knowledge of process and explained questions very well.\
Thank you for creating an environment of enthusiasm for learning, appreciation for growing, and room for making mistakes along the way. I am grateful to have you as a guide, leading by example. \
Course was good, we only had 1 day course so the trainer was very good at fitting it all in and giving us a very good understanding.\
Overall the course was excellent. One issue was the example exercises not being a product or process we recognised, this made it a little harder to grasp. The trainer did recognise this and  took the time to explain one of our processes too.\
The course had a fairly dry lecture format. It depended quite heavily on the delivery of the presenter. The content was rather demanding and dense relative to the confidence of the audience. \
Pre-course reading materials were sent out after I had left work for the week.  Coffee was unpleasant to drink  \
Information not sent to the course attendee - had to ask for it.  The room was poorly designed for the training  (tables in a U shape with the projector at the front).  Therefore had neck and shoulder strain over the course of 2 days.  Coffee from the machine was not pleasant to drink.\
Clear and concise information provided to gain a in-depth understanding of Internal Auditing Process. \
Some confusion with additional training materials - some of which didnt match up with the Trainer's.  Overall, good delivery of a 'dry' subject, provided a good insight into the new standard.  The Trainer had an in depth knowledge of the subject matter\
I am well satisfied with the course.  The trainer was well knowledgeable and did not digress from the objective of the training.\
For what could have been a dry boring topic, Momcilo's energy, knowledge and delivery made it one of the best training courses I've ever been on. Couldn't recommend it more.\
\
\
\
\
Although the course was great the change of venue prior was annoying. The quality of the signage around the roads and car parking leading to the office is woefully inadequate, bigger signs showing LRQA are needed to assist visitors in finding the correct building and correct parking, especially after an incredibly stressful 3 hour journey up the M1 and M6.\
The conference room was rather cold during the two days.\
A well planned and presented course, which included logical progression through the topics.\
\
\
Momcilo passed off his enthusiasm (which I imagine could sound odd when considering this is an auditing course). I think he did about as well as anyone could imparting the info; the important bit is to put what we learned into practice, and soon. Momcilo has given us the ammunition, we need to fire the live rounds.\
\
\
\
\
The subject matter has the potential to be 'a little dull'.  However, the course structure and the Trainer's delivery style and enthusiasm for the topic ensured that the participants were engaged for the whole 2 days. \
\
\
The intensity of the course along with the homework would warrant more time being allowed.  There is absolutely no wriggle room and did lead to a feeling of overload.\
\
\
The trainer subject knowledge was excellent. Although the course format and delivery method seemed very confusing at times. \
electronic presentation would be useful rather than hard copy  Would be improved by translation of current APHA quality systems into the new standard to identify where there are areas we can reduce documentation or are already fully compliant\
Disappointing not to have print-outs of the slides in order to make notes during the course. \
I learnt alot more than I had expected to. \
Moncillo made you feel at ease, and even if you got a question wrong it was easy to understand his explanations. Although I have done ISO internal Audit in the pass, I  got a lot out of the course on best ways to completing an audit with best practices.  A well presented course. \
Good set of team exercises which really helped with the understanding of the new clauses. Good presentations from both trainers and good support from Colin during the team exercises. Felt everyone got a chance to participate and the small group (7 of us) was an ideal size I thought.\
The hotel was slightly dated and used - could do with an update! However, the food at the venue was outstanding.\
The trainer was effective and competent but seemed a little hesitant. They were overshadowed by their manager a little. However, without the support and interjection of the manager, the course as a whole may have lost some dynamism.  All in all, there were no complaints, this is only a personal opinion/preference.\
Informative and engaging course delivered at the right tempo and tone from Colin....enjoyed Wayne's stories and experiences and energy\
\
There were a lot of slides and a lot of text. It would have been good to have had the slides as hand-out instead of receiving them after the event.\
\
No training materials were supplied, other than copies of the slides which were supplied subsequently.  Do not take the 3-star score as a negative criticism, is more as a 'not applicable'.\
Course concentrated mainly on the auditing of the organisation as a whole, whereas we are more likely to assess our own teams. Other than that, it was very good in the limited time available.\
\
The image used to illustrate the Leadership Principles was inappropriate and not particularly diverse. It was a lazy option, men in suits and ties and women in skirts and heels.  The image served no purpose\
\
\
No training materials were provided and the presentation slides were minimal - but speaker was interactive, demonstrative and kept my interest, so slides not missed.\
\
An excellent and faultless course - thank you.\
All very good in principle, but one of the take home messages was that whatever system gets put in place could (and probably will) be dictated by over-riding organisational requirements, so without knowing what these will be, or how they will be coordinated,  it is difficult to judge the impact (other than responsibility!) at a more personal/local level. \
Enthusiastic & engaging presentation with good content\
The role playing in the last day was very useful. The course seemed to start relatively slow with respect to content and then finish with a great deal to get done in the last day and a half.  The additional conversation and talking around the topics with  Wayne was also really useful and added value to the course.  The pre course material was particularly useful. I really enjoyed the course and having gone on other training provider courses  LRQA, for me, if by far the stonger provider. Thank you!\
\
\
This was an excellent course which gave a different angle as to how management systems should be audited internally in the light of the introduction of ISO9001:2015. There was a good amount of interaction and there were a number of useful exercises throughout the day. The course  maintained a strong and relevant focus on the recent ISO9001 changes and how they have affected and changed the way internal audits are best conducted within organisations.\
\
\
\
\
\
A well laid out course that covers all required areas, as an exisiting lead auditor it did not meet my desires for the course but the rest of the personnel found it very useful.\
Impossible to find fault with the course, the facilities or our trainer, Mike, who demonstrated exceptional knowledge and experience, and made what could easily be a very dull topic very interesting - the whole two days were a great example of how to avoid 'death by Powerpoint'! LRQA's course is not the cheapest, but I think you definitely get what you pay for.\
\
\
\
The course met all my needs, I found the trainer engaging and extremely knowledgeable.  It has to be one of the best courses I have attended.\
\
As the presentations were undertaken, the screen constantly kept loosing signal and refreshing. It occurred so often that when the tutor tried to show us a video, he played it off his laptop instead of off the screen. Hence all 6 of us were huddled around one laptop, trying to watch a video.  However the tutor was fantastic. He explained things in a very clear and concise way.  \
Trainer was enthusiastic and knowledgeable - he kept the sessions moving but was also able to take questions 'on the hoof'. The auditor training section was very useful, our trainer was most helpful and ran the exercises in a stimulating and constructive fashion.\
The hotel we were booked in Holiday Inn Birmingham Airport was appalling, it is one of the worst hotels I have been booked in,  Issue 1 Resturant Dinner. 2 options picked pre contaminated with dairy products, they did tell me, I cannot believe pasta has cheese in it, in Italy you optionally put it on top. Eventually I got rack of ribs, complete with coleslaw which contains cream - sent back. The starter Brushcetta was cold. Issue 2 the room. Broken kettle lid handle - H&S issue, broken soap dispenser, dodgy plug on sink. The noise was unbearable from the road like sitting by the M1, then aircraft engine testing between 2am & 3am. Breakfast poor, Travel Lodge & Premier in  should be seen as an example of how to do it. We stayed at Cranage Hall in August - total opposite to this. I suggest you review the hotel arrangements\
\
a lot crammed into 3 days but good content and I am confident in what I learned\
An excellent course, Liz Mansfield was extremely knowledgeable and the group discussions particularly helpful and insightful.\
If I hadn't been going on to the ISO9001:2015 implementation course this 1 day would not have been enough.\
\
Couldn't fault the course at all. It was well worth the travel to Scotland to undertake. Paul is a fantastic trainer.\
\
\
Excellent trainer, very knowledgeable of the subject. would highly recommend onsite training.\
I enjoyed Liz's format for training the course. She was very knowledgeable and gave insightful information about the transition for 9001.   I think it would be valuable to have the course for two days, as  it was a lot to take in, and I felt like I need a second day day to process and apply to our management system.\
Informative course serving our needs.\
The course was very relevant to me as I have to undertake some audits of our suppliers imminently. Paul's delivery was excellent, and he used humour used very well to keep our attention.\
\
\
It was refreshing to have a jovial and enthusiastic attitude from the trainer towards a fairly knowledge-heavy subject.  Peripheral questions were taken in stride and encouraged which enhanced the overall participation of the trainees.\
Some of the examples could have been tailored to our business\
\
Although there is a lot of information within the course maybe splitting the course into a 2 day would cover more  areas and give a much broader understanding of the changes and time to disseminate the information more effectively. \
The Trainer was excellent.\
For someone like me (no auditing experience) the course was a little intense. I believe that I was not a suitable candidate for the course. I had completed the internal auditor course quite a while back but have not completed any audits. The days were very long in the classroom and some of the homework was an additional hour or two + plus in the evenings. I just found that 08.30 to 18.30 (albeit well structured and interesting) plus homework was too much for me but then I am no spring chicken and I was the oldest on the course by some margin\
\
\
Excellent & informative conducted superbly by the trainer Momcilo\
Excellent Course Instructor, very good knowledge of material, clearly an expert in ISO 9001 and really engaging style.\
Really good trainer who was engaging and kept the course interactive and tailored mostly to our needs. Would have been a bit better if he knew more about ARM.\
Fantastic course, very interactive and interesting.  Good balance of activities and knowledge, and the facilities and food were excellent.\
My personal objectives were possibly too much 'internal audit' oriented, expecting more improvements tricks to make them more effective. However the trainer was available for side questions and very knowledgeable and experienced. But looking at ISO9001:2015 pure update, the course matches the general expectation.\
Its essential that the role of leadership is made clear at the end of the training as we where a little pushed for time the close out had to be cut short.\
Be good to have hand out of the terminology after the card exercise, a hand out on comparison on standards now to what will be would be good I have used this approach recently and it worked well.  I would suggest a slightly quicker start as a lot of time was spent on the introduction and make the most of the time as there is a lot to cover.  Excellent trainer great interaction very well balanced approach.\
\
\
Albert is a lovely trainer and very suited to the role. He was witty and good fun which helped the course to be less intense. However, due to the sheer quantity of material that was packed into the course, there was very little or no time to obtain explanations if you didn't understand a subject are first time. I also feel that after such long days, any further info couldn't have been retained anyhow.\
The course was delivered by Brian on day 1 and my score is based upon this experience, Albert and Momcilo were unable to be quiet to the point that on the first day they were told by Brian to keep it down and I think this had an effect on his confidence with the material. The participants sitting closest were giving glaring looks and for a whole morning I was unable to hear properly and was getting pretty upset at the discussions and clatter. Finally in the afternoon I turned around and asked them to please be quiet and it improved.   I did wonder if they both had a hearing impairment and may not have realised how loud they were being.  The jokes we endured by Albert are borderline too, but apparently LRQA are aware of this already. \
It would be beneficial if the training exercises are more related to the Company's business environment e.g. Engineering\
\
Overall the course was excellent and fully enjoyed the two days\
\
\
Very personable and knowledgable trainer who managed to get a lot of information across in a relatively short space of time, using well prepared material.\
\
I was booked on this course by my Manager. I had no previous auditing experience & therefore struggled from day 1. There were only 4 candidates on the course which made it easier to spend time clarifying things & checking that my understanding was correct. The course days were very long for a learning environment & with homework as well it was incredibly intense.  \
\
The course made you think what the focus for 2015 is on, what is included and what is excluded from the 2008 and getting use to the new clauses. I have already recommended this course to colleagues in another part of our business.  \
Kevin was very knowledgeable with an unorthodox training manner, this however worked extremely well and enabled me to fully understand the requirements of integrated auditing\
Having attended the course with the conception that the course was going to be boring and pointless, (as lets face it what could possibly be interesting about auditing) I couldn't have been further from the truth. Kevin was a great tutor (even sometimes funny) and has a wealth of knowledge in the processes of auditing (its a shame the same cant be said about his jokes), joking aside the course was very informative indeed and is well worth attending. \
I HAD PREVIOUSLY ATTAINED CERTIFICATION TO ISO9001 ROUND ABOUT 2001/2002 THEREFORE I WAS FAMILIAR WITH THE FUNDAMENTALS AND SPECIFICS FOR THIS PARTICULAR STANDARD. IT WAS USEFUL TO HAVE A REFRESHER. THOUGHT THE ASSESSMENT ON THE FINAL DAY WAS AN EXCELLENT EXERCISE.    \
I did send my food allergies through because there are so many, but the venue don't pre-plan, they react, which resulted in the poor chef needing to be inventive and recook stuff on day 1.  Trainer moulded content to attended which was great for me, but others found not having a clear plan frustrating.\
\
Hotel ok, nothing special but in need of basic maintenance. Extremely disappointed in the evening meal food. Had a steak first night which was cold, second night had a pizza that must have been baked in the center of a volcano. I think if you are going to include a package that includes an eveing meal you need to sample the food for yourselves as it wasn't value for money\
Mr Lawson put things over very well & in a way to keep my attention over the 3.5hrs. His Explanations & examples made things much clearer. \
\
\
\
Good quality training. made it fun and interesting\
I was disappointed to not learn more about ISO14001 and OHSAS18001. The course I felt focussed on planning and conducting of audits. I am a Lead Auditor and my full time job is auditing against ISO9001. I was hoping to learn more about the specific additional clauses in ISO14001 and OHSAS18001 but two days were focussed purely on auditing skills.\
Mike was a very good trainer, using good examples and application into industry to explain the new standard.\
\
Very good course.  Will be using LRQA again\
When using i-phone maps, the link for the address on the pre-course information shows the location as a house at No 1 Bickenhill Lane. Not your fault but something to be wary of. \
\
\
The morning of day one seem to be dragged out and then the rest of the course seemed rushed. Some sections seemed to be skipped past. If they were not important then why were they part of the course? The slides didn't always match up with the folder of material provided which was confusing at times.   Have four people from the same organisation did direct the conversation to their organisation, which didn't allow for much other conversation.  The trainers were friendly, helpful and knowledgeable, and the training room and facilities were good.  \
\
\
\
I think this course was too long as a 2 day. There was not enough content to cover 2 days. This should have been a one day course (previous experience/knowledge of quality and ISO9001 required).  The exercises with the class were too drawn out and of little value for most. remove these or reduce substantially.\
\
\
Both trainers were knowledgable and engaging. The course was generally good but there are a couple of observations I would make: 1. It was expensive and therefore a value for money judgement would be rather low. 2. It would have made sense for the delegates to be able to take away copies of the two standards being reviewed at the end rather than having to hand them back in. 3. The two trainers occassionally drifted into esoteric discussions about what they didn't agree with personally within the new standard. I did not see this is really relevant or helpful. 4. The training finished significantly early on both days which makes me feel the allocated time was too long and perhaps course content could be increased to fill the designated time or the cost could be reduced to cover the actual time\
\
The majority of the course was focused on how to carry out an audit as opposed to what ISO14001, 9001 and OHSAS 18001 entails. It was useful for our new team member that is new to auditing but less so for those of us who have passed the Lead Auditors course. \
Very good course - met the objectives - very informative - good pace - trainer very knowledgeable \
I did struggle to keep up with the past of the course due to my dyslexia. If the presentation slide could be made available the it would help making notes in my case.\
The course was good for our specific needs, the content and duration were at the level we require.  It could have gone into more depth in a few places, but really it's down to us to confirm in detail what we plan to do, and I felt the higher-level of the course materials was OK to provide a view of the changes to the attendees without being excessively detailed.  I was also pleased to be re-assured that we are not missing anything in terms of interpretation of the changes to the standards.\
\
\
I felt we spent too much time discussing ISO 9001:2008, I would have preferred to discuss whats new, whats gone and what that means to the organisation. We covered this to a degree but it was my primary interest in the course. Without any doubt the trainers are beyond reproach regarding technical content of the standards, it is a shame we could not harness that knowledge and passion in the course content. The most helpful subject was the Brown Papre exercise as narrated by Albert. This put the complete standard into perspective in an interesting and memorable way. I will be stealing this concept for future promotion of ISO 9001:2015 in BMW Group. On the whole a useful course if you have no knowledge of the standard. \
Very informative course which everyone felt they have benefited from.\
\
\
\
\
Kevin managed to bring the dry subject to life, fortunately for us.\
\
\
The course was well delivered with excellent explanations and discussed in context with our business rather than a more general sense, meaning of course that it was more relevant.\
\
\
\
Generally the course was good. Keith delivers the course well and is knowledgeable in the subject.  I do have issue with the personal ongoing feedback forms appearing to be exactly the same for each delegate, which seems to miss the point of them being individual feedback. I feel the first day's content spends too much time on the objectives of the course and verification of the pre-course work, to the point that auditing topics are not started until day 2.\
\
A little dry!  Quite a bit of jumping around they standards booklet.\
\
\
Pre-Course information was not received on time of booking. I needed to call LRQA Training to enquire about any pre-course prep.   Facilities at the venue were excellent & the course leader was very informative and knowledgeable.   Over all a very good course.    \
Good course and tutor, answered many of my 'non audit' related ISO standard questions.\
\
I felt the course was too much about ISO Standard awareness, and not enough about auditing. I wanted more about how to plan, conduct and report an audit. Different techniques for that. These seemed to be brushed over, and more time spent on understanding the requirements of standards. I realise this is a part of auditing, but for someone new to auditing I expected the course to be more focused on the techniques needed to audit.\
\
\
I have had no exposure to this type of auditing and very eager to carry out my first audit alongside my more experienced colleague with a hands on approach.\
I felt that some of the exercises were a little woolly, i.e. not enough direction to be able  to complete them effectively.   \
The trainer presented the course well, he was approachable, encouraging and enthusiastic. Whilst he was clearly an experienced auditor occasionally the fact that his main area of expertise being in Quality, as opposed to Information security, was reflected in some of the examples he provided, albeit his knowledge of the ISO 27001 standard was good and the context of the standard was helpful. The training materials are of good quality and will provide a useful aid memoir to refer back to, particularly the 6 stage approach. It would have been helpful to have reference to the page numbers in the folder, compared with those being shown on the screen, as it was distracting trying to establish where we were in the folder for note taking purposes, as didn\'82\'c4\'f4t follow the folder order verbatim; this was compounded by the fact that the tutors folder had a different page number versioning than that of the delegates. There were also a few slides that the tutor provided which weren\'82\'c4\'f4t in the pack, one of which has subsequently been emailed, post course, along with the offer of any further support which is appreciated. For ease of use of the folder it would have been useful to have overall page numbers, as opposed to just section page numbers; the font size on the section dividers could have done with being slightly larger.   Other training companies provide a copy of the ISO 27001 standard, for the delegate to retain, whilst we were provided a copy for the course it was only on a loan basis, for classroom use. It wasn\'82\'c4\'f4t clear from the website where in Birmingham the course was based, it was chosen on the assumption that it was at your Colmore row Birmingham city centre site so being based at Trinity Park extended and complicated the commute. The link provided in the course joining instructions for site details (http://www.lrqa.co.uk/who-we-are/our-glo) just went through to a Who We Are page, it wasn\'82\'c4\'f4t easy to navigate to the site details from there. Some assistance on how to find you would be helpful as not clear as to where to go when leaving the train station or where in the Trinity Park site you are. There is a truncated section of text in the notes section of the course joining instructions email, maybe there were further details that would have helped with this?  Part of my commute was a bike ride to the station but there were no changing facilities on site, the disabled toilet was offered and there didn\'82\'c4\'f4t appear to be any bike parking facilities, although with the location of the site would imagine there would be low demand for cycling.     Many thanks for accommodating the wheat free dietary requirements, the catering lady even checked with me that everything was OK which was appreciated. \
Holiday Inn - Marco Pierre restaurant, pretty rubbish.  Refreshments/lunch provided by LRQA - fantastic.  Albert .. what can I say, made the course interesting which kept your attention the whole time.  Great guy and great trainer, delivered the course very well and there it meet all my personal objectives. \
This type of course is difficult to deliver as each organization is different, so its approach and interpretation of the standards are different. The most interesting part for me was, as an internal auditor I don't need to know all the clauses of the standard. I only need to audit to the QMS to the company's internal procedures & policies. Because the external auditing body will check that the company are meeting the requirements of the standard.  \
In overall it was a good course. with regard to training material, it would be helpful for future courses that ISO 9000 is provided as well. And I would like to have one for myself. As for the facilities, it was well organized. For future improvements, I would like to suggest to improve the ergonomic of the classroom and the chairs in particular, since participants spent a lot of time sitting including the examination.\
I was very disappointed with this course. I'm not sure I learnt anything. I have got more familiar with the ISO standard but I do not feel competent to lead an audit or judge when an issue is actually a non conformance. The evening work did not re-inforce any learning as it was all about stuff that had not yet been taught. I feel as though we were just being taught how to pass an exam and I'm not entirely sure I managed that!\
The trainer are very help, not only on the exam basis but also the practise basis. The trainer has got wealthy knowledge of ISO 9001. and give me a good and detailed understanding of the system requirement.  \
I did enjoy the course, however; my one concern is that I have not achieved a pass because of the speed that it required to complete the examination. I have been auditing for some years now and my auditing technique is based on being matriculate. I feel that being rushed certainly may have caused me to 'write things down' in order to complete all four sections.\
Would have liked a copy of the Gillotel Hotel case study\
I found the course very useful as an introduction to environmental auditing.\
\
\
\
\
The course and the content were very good, I have marked this down however as the information came across very thick and fast.  It was clear that some of the participants (myself included) were finding certain areas difficult to understand but there was no time for it to be explained fully before moving on to the next stage.  A recommendation I would have is to stress to participants the importance of ISO 9001:2015 knowledge and experience before attending the course that goes deeper than the pre-course work and some exposure to auditing has been done.  Based on our group I would also recommend having a section in the pre-course work on creating a check list as this was one of the areas that caused the most confusion, especially as it is part of the marked work.\
Very engaging course, full of useful practical experience from Kevin, delivered with professionalism and fun.  highly reccommended\
I cannot commend Dave highly enough. His huge experience of QMS and of business in general was evident and his ability to use anecdotes from this experience to explain aspects of the new standard was extremely valuable.\
As with the original auditor training, what I did not get from the training was the setting of the LRQA provided training within the ARM context, so my feedback really is to include a 'top and tail' intro & summary wrapper at the start and end of the course where the employer ensures that its auditors actually understand how the organisation has taken the ISO standard, manages a number of requirements centrally, clarifies which requirements are expected to be fulfilled entirely or tailored from an organisational requirement by a sub-group within the organisation. Also as a newer employee to attend the auditor course and leave none the wiser how auditing is managed / scheduled / etc __at ARM__! \
I like the way that the course was tailored on-the-fly to the needs of the group.  Direct comparison of the old and new standards was very helpful, as was the honest opinion of the trainer on some aspects of the language used in the new standard.  Analogies helped to illustrate the points being made, though some people might have found it awkward to be used as 'participants'.  Although I took my own notes, there wasn't much direct correlation of the printed notes with the sessions so it's possible that I missed capturing some key points.  We covered a lot of ground, though.\
Cross-referencing analysis of old vs new standard was very useful.\
\
The trainer was very good. He had a great knowledge of the subject and was very good at providing examples of the Environmental manager system being used which help myself understand what is required. I went away with great confident that I could implement what the standard requires at my company.\
Good structure to the course and good delivery of the course material by the trainer.\
Kevin's extensive experience and character really added value to this course and kept it real for the EDF Energy NNB quality Leads and Auditors.  Focus on context and risk was  meaningful and led to some questions and discussion.\
This course was a little too intense for a week long course, I think It would have been better over 2 weeks with a bit more depth in each subject area\
\
Good training course with the right amount of focus on key areas and good examples from real life.\
\
1 Day course at best, the level of changes do not warrant two days. imo\
\
Was a great course, only trouble we had was with some other attendees,  we got very delayed which caused the 2nd day to be a bit rushed I felt. This was not at the tutors fault.   We booked the package with accommodation and food, this was not made clear you have a \'ac\'a325 limit. Also the centre said when booking the hotel was a 10 minute walk away, this was not true at all and you would need to drive or taxi. \
Very good course and very informative\
\
Trainer was excellent and delivered the course in terms that everyone could understand, this course made 9001:2015 much clearer for everyone concerned even although attendance to LRQA Live was also attended.\
\
Dave White was excellent; we were given practical advice and tools to aid the transition process, and every effort was made to make these relevant to the attendees' business background and requirements.\
\
As i was new to all of this i found it a little confusing at first but as we went on i grew confident and enjoyed what i was learning from Brian the trainer. I would like to learn more about Auditing in the future.\
Very well paced and informative.\
\
\
Excellent presenter.  Course tailored to group's requirements.  My training objectives and expectations were exceeded.\
Course delivered in a bit chaotic manner. Trainer to become quickly distracted from the main subject (ISO course) and  drifted away into unnecessary chats off the topic. Not enough time to discuss all course materials.\
Fantastic training, really learnt a lot of new information on conducting Audits. Brian is a great teacher. Thank you for the training. \
\
\
The only recommendation would be that more time should be given to actually practicing audits.  Apart from that was great.\
I was expecting more on auditing to 9001 :2015. at this time of change. The trainer picked up on my need and did well to it on a good range of points but I have no definitive list of things that I need to know. Do I know 10% or 100% about auditing to the new standard.  I don't think you can divorce training quality auditors from the principle new standard perhaps this should be a three day .    \
Excellent course will recommend it.\
\
Informative course on the whole, beneficial for Systems Managers.  Could have been more focus on the auditing activity itself. \
A thoroughly enjoyable but tough course for someone not currently involved in auditing.  Full credit to Albert for managing to deliver a very involved subject matter in a fun way and one that everyone understood.  It certainly pushed my boundaries but in a very positive way.  Very glad I decided I wanted to be more involved in ISO.  Great set of people, very friendly environment.  Would also like to thank the catering team, always a little something to look forward to at breaks and super tasty lunches.    \
Previously we were provided with a copy of the ISO standard. I understand that this has now changed and due to cost you are unable to provide a copy of the standard. This is very disappointing given the cost of the course.\
\
Hi, I really enjoyed the course, and the group size was perfect. The training was very good, and really new her stuff.  I was very disappointed not to get an copy of the standard, as I have on previous lead auditor and lead auditor conversion courses. I factored in the cost of a copy of the standard in justifying the price of the course. i.e. for the relatively high cost of the course, it is the least I would expect. \
\
An excellent course which leads the participant gently through the issues raised by the new version of the Standard. The Trainer (Sarah) was very knowledgeable on the subject, and the right mix of traditional classroom lectures and practical exercises ensured that participants were always engaged.\
The course was well structured with sufficient opportunity to apply learning through role play, using a fictitious organisation  representative of the type of real world scenarios that an auditor is likely to encounter.  The trainer made the content of the course enjoyable and used a variety of delivery techniques which served well to maintain high levels of engagement throughout the five days, and embed learning.  The Trainer's experience was invaluable in setting the scene within various types of organisations and the range of challenges that an auditor may face.  A thoroughly enjoyable week which exceeded my expectation and from which I have gained a number of skills that will serve me well in my career ahead.  Thank you.\
I booked on line than rang to make payment would be better to have an on-line payment screen.\
Albert is a great trainer. It was the second time I attended a course delivered by him.  This course is inherently quite dry in its nature. However Albert made sure that the audience remained engaged & focused throughout the duration of the course. Albert's time-keeping is also phenomenal. \
\
\
It was an excellent course, but it could have benefited from further interactive elements. \
Overall was very well presented with lots of knowledge.\
First class training delivery and materials - one of the best courses I have attended in terms of quality of delivery.\
Very good on the whole\
\
\
\
Excellent course with excellent delivery of the training.\
I found as most useful the role play in order to help me to learn the new topics.\
Did exactly what was on the tin - PLUS. The trainer took care to explain his experiences and added elements to support specific questions that were being asked. I made sure the trainer had some insight into the organisational area being trained which he then factored into the course content showing an appropriate level of flexibility. Overall I would rate this a five star course. \
\
An excellent overview and good description of the chamges being made and why.\
would've been good to get a copy of the standard\
Excellent course delivered by a very knowledgeable trainer.  The amount of content in the course would suit 3 days as over 2 days it is very intensive.\
Dave White was an excellent trainer, his subject knowledge and experience meant the course content was delivered clearly and as a result I now feel much more confident about transitioning to ISO 9001:2015 \
Albert made what could have been an extremely dry topic very much more engaging by virtue of his tutorial experience and in depth knowledge of the standard.\
Well delivered course , tutor had great knowledge of subject and ensured the course was a two way experience.\
An excellent course, really gave me a good steer as to what the new standard is looking for and how to audit it.\
Excellent course well prepared and executed.\
\
\
Albert, delivered an excellent course and had the ability to 'teach' rather than 'present'. He shared his experiences of auditing companies and provided some additional diagrams/tools which were not part of the standard course materials. His demonstration of auditing for effectiveness was excellent. \
Room was very cold, unable to adjust a/c. Lunch was v. good, but mid morning and afternoon breaks not brilliant.  Coffee awful from machine and weird choices of morning coffee snack - fish goujons - nothing for vegetarians bearing in mind some of us had been travelling for a couple of hours before the meeting.\
For me the icing on the cake was: 1) the trainer's ability to show the logic of how good business is structured and the clauses that fit into that using the mind map 2) His additional hand-outs on how to audit the effectiveness of the process (to be e-mailed at a later date). 3) His ability to engages very well with his clients- open and relaxed.\
\
\
\
Much better the venue in Regent Street\
The main downside to the facilities is that there are no toilets on the floor of the Hotel in which the training took place ... \
\
\
Momcilo - the trainer was really professional and in the same time very patient and understanding. \
\
A well structured and comprehensive course. Trainer was very engaging and made the course interesting and fun.\
Could include a couple of blank pages for notes.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Great delivery of course from Tim with helpful pace and interaction. Very informative, would recommend.\
More space for note making required. good course delivery but presentation order did not match up to notes \
\
Slide Printout format of 2 Slides per page is not adequate at all as the detail in some areas is not readable.  Digital format is preferred to provide internal training where needed.\
Brian is an excellent trainer with a vast knowledge in the subject.  His style is to be commended. \
\
\
Very informative course and useful for senior management to undertake\
Brilliant trainer! Really worked with his students to understand their requirements and to deliver the content in a way suited to the individuals.  Would highly recommend this course to others.  I was self-funded and felt every penny was well spent.\
Sarah was a great instructor, her knowledge of the subject matter was excellent, particularly as I am new to a change of standard and was going in quite blind, her delivery and explanations were clear and ensured I left with the tools to enable a smooth transition to the 2015 standard\
Momcilo is an absolute pleasure to learn from. I'd put him top  of the pile of tutors and trainers I've ever received training from. His delivery, empathy and enthusiasm, with humour thrown in is exactly what I need to get the best out of a course.\
Brilliant course, Momchilo was informative and engaging. The information was designed well around the varying levels of basic knowledge in the group. The whole two days ran efficiently and overall the course was a lot more fun than previous training I have been on.\
I have to say the subject matter may have been one that would cause people to struggle 'standards and changes', However with the expert delivery and wit of Momcilo Kovacevic the days training flew by, his delivery was flawless and his subject knowledge was masterful he certainly knows his stuff.\
Very comprehensive course, well delivered.  Sarah managed to keep the group on track which was a good challenge.  The trainers knowledege and application of the changes in the standard were very clearly outlined.  I was very impressed with the guidance documents and booklet which will be very valuable going forward, once purchased........thank you\
Excellent thought-provoking course delivered by an extremely good trainer\
Excellent trainer and course\
The trainer had an extremely impressive knowledge of auditing, and the way he delivered the course was very interesting. Great great course\
Pros on course overall: Accurate, on subject, efficient interactions, perfect role play. Cons: Poor ambient temperature control\
Nick facilitated a very positive learning experience and with a small team was able to develop a good exchange of ideas and thought processes that I personally found very rewarding. More importantly kept the course on track and made sure we got the point when we may have wondered. Tasks were testing and instructive. A really good job with material that was complex and need to be unravelled to get to the point.\
Not as good as the 5 day Lead Auditor course.  Did not receive a copy of the standard which was the norm with the Lead Auditor course.  Not a lot of time for practice  against the new clauses and reflection on the materials.  A bit rushed as some delegates were keen to push on and this was not the consensus. I guess the trainer cannot help if this happens.\
\
\
All expectations met. I feel confident that I now have the right skills and knowledge to undertake an internal audit.\
My only slight worry about the whole course was the pre course reading. I wasn't sure whether I was supposed to just read it or go away and research referenced material. Once I was on the course all my worries were alleviated. The course presentation was excellent. The tutor engaged with the participants all the time and his manner knowledge and presentation skills were superb. I thought this course was going to be death by power point but it wasn't.  I would definitely recommend this course to anyone that has been identified as an auditor in  Magnox. \
\
Overall the course met my requirements and explained the way forward for expanding our scope.\
would be great if there were some examples\
\
\
I specifically wanted the course to focus on the Leadership aspects of the changes to ISO standards, although we did cover this it was a small part of the 3 1/2hour session.\
\
\
\
\
Keith is an excellent tutor and very knowledgeable with superb delivery, made the course entertaining and interactive. \
Albert managed to keep a potentially dry subject interesting and everyone awake.\
\
Morning session was full of energy and lots of interactive exercises and ample reflection time.  The afternoon session was very long with very little movement and large sections to concentrate on which I felt overran, this in turn meant the last section felt rushed in delivery and there was no time for reflection or open discussion.\
\
I didn't feel the room was set up correctly for this type of training and was too hot.  Afternoon sessions was too long without a break. Whilst there was clear improvement with each 'role play' that took place it felt this section was too long. Having to watch 6 other roles plays was too much. Trainer should a good depth of knowledge and a good sense of humour but should have read that energy levels in the room had siginifcantly dropped in the afternoon and a lift of some sort was required. I do think however that this course is ideal for someone with no auditing knowledge or experience as it really got back to basics. Paul also provided some good challenges to people's answers and thoughts.    \
Good course and refresher on how to plan and carry out an audit\
\
This was a good course that was run very well and very enjoyable too.\
\
\
\
\
\
it was an excellent course for an internal auditor and I really enjoyed it.  My lower marks are due to my expectation that this would help me understand the standard and it's clauses more thoroughly which actually isn't the purpose of the course (found this out on day 1)  but I am still pleased I attended as I will be conducting internal audits.\
Course Handbook materials quite plain, could do with more pictograms and practical examples. Course delivery very good but hard to follow the course notes in relation to it so often had to make side notes\
Keith Mythen's delivery style was exceptional. I have attended a lot of courses, conferences etc. over the last 20 years and his technique, ability to maintain interest and subject knowledge was impressive\
Too much time spent looking back at ISO 14001:2004.   I was expecting the course materials to include a transition checklist. Could have been condensed into 1 day.  Or even better, 1 day as a formal course, 1 day as a workshop with the trainer helping us work through the requirements for our individual organisations.\
good course, interactive and giving practical examples on what it is required\
A copy of the new standard to be included in the cost of the course, the A5 laminated style is very useful and user friendly.\
\
\
Some information contradicted the previous LRQA course\
\
\
\
\
\
More indication - like a map, sent prior to the course might be a good idea for people who don't know exactly where the LRQA facilities are. Very few parking spaces for customers.\
I really enjoyed this course! Tim was a really good trainer, he was easy to talk to and was always helpful, explaining things and sharing his knowledge so that everyone there understood! The facilities were also good and the lunch and snacks provided were really nice since we were there for two full days.\
Useful course, well worth doing.  Keith is an excellent trainer.\
\
Momcilo delivered the training very well able to answer questions and explain very thoughly course content.  \
\
\
Generally very good presentation and content\
Momcilo made a potentially boring subject very interactive and easy going, really enjoyed it.\
\
Great course. Momcilo was fantastic.\
The pre course work only arrived just over a week before the course, and went to our head office so I didn't receive the course work until 4 working days before the course started which left me little time to go through it. When I did the environmental equivalent course with LRQA I got the precourse material at least 3 weeks before the actual course so I had plenty of time to work though it - so this disappointed me a little.\
Great trainer made a boring subject very interesting, used different ways to present information, a great course and would recommend to others.\
An informative course.  There was a lot of practical exercises, which i found useful.  The instructor was extremely professional in the delivery of the course, he was clear in his presentation.  I certainly learnt valuable skills during the duration of the course.\
\
I did not receive the pre-course information, I received only a booking confirmation, everything else was excellent.\
Well run brief concise course for the senior management team within our organisation. Planning to run another course (same course) for our senior managers and department heads later in the year at two sites in High Wycombe\
\
A very useful course that is relevant, goes in to enough detail with out bogging you down. Tim Sparey is not only clearly very experienced and knowledgeable but more importantly is extremely good at communicating the message.\
Greatly improved my knowledge on Internal Auditing, with what i learnt on the course and my notes, I will be able to carry this forward in learning Interal Auditing on the job at work.  Very enthusiatic and knowledgeable trainer who was very supportive when questions were asked or where any additional explanation was needed.\
The only constructive criticism is I think the standard course needs to be incorporated with it for a better understanding of the standard! I really enjoyed the course it was good and well presented and Tim was extremely positive and encouraged us not give up.\
Trainer gave examples of instances which was beneficial in certain circumstances. However the trainer on numerous occasions diverted from delivering the course content, and too often spoke about their own experience.\
\
\
The course was as I expected it to be and the trainer Peter Lomas seemed to get a good feel for our group and managed the training accordingly.  Thank you  I booked on the course with quite short notice and our booking process took some time so I only received the pre course work the day before the course started. I have fed this back to our booking people.  And the service of the food at the venue left a lot to be desired but I will also feed this back to the hotel.  The standard of food was alright.\
\
\
The venue was not well located for access to public transport, and was a a second choice following cancellation of a previously booked course. The hotel staff appeared confused on several occaisions, unsure of the booking arrangements with 'LRQA', the options of vegetarian food were limited and uninspiring.\
Great course, came away feeling I learnt a tremendous amount from an extremely knowledgeable trainer in Peter.\
Food not the best very little choice\
Albert delivered the course well and helped the attendees settle in. One comment I would make is the over-reliance of flipboards, and writing out lengthy statements that could have been better displayed on a laptop, saving time and also making better use of the technology on offer.\
Excellent course and the tutor was second to none in expertise, knowledge and training delivery.  The best delivery of a course I have seen witnessed/experienced.      \
\
It was an informative training course and the trainer demonstrated depth in his knowledge of the subject. The trainer's delivery was engaging and suitable for the target audience, and he explained points further when questions were raised within the group.\
\
There was a lack of plain paper or pads to make notes etc.\
\
The course content was fine and was well delivered by an enthusiastic and amiable presenter.  My only reservation is that I felt the course could have compressed into less than 2 full days.\
Highly recommended, many thanks.\
I enjoy the course and Mike was really helpful with helping me through the course with my conditions. He was very polite to go through my night work after classes or in-between breaks. \
The initial course I was booked on was cancelled due to low level of students.\
\
The course on the first day was heavily weighted towards the content of the standard, which was great however, I feel that we did not have enough time to properly plan the audit that we were to conduct the following day.  If we spent slightly less time on the standard on the first day and placed a little more focus on the preparation for the audit I feel that we would have been better prepared.  we could have then focussed on parts of the standard on the second day. \
Fantastic course - learned a lot - was very interesting despoute challenging long days\
\
\
Large amount of information to fit in the timescale\
\
None\
\
Thoroughly enjoyable course. Trainer very knowledgeable and experienced. He made what could have been a dry subject interesting.\
\
Materials mark low as very few materials and disappointing that a copy of standard was not provided for all those who attended the course \
Very good course really enjoyed it\
\
The trainer had a very supportive and engaging manner.\
Feel the course duration was too long. Could of easily been done in one day. For the type of auditing that we carry out a lot of the course content wasn't applicable\
Aimed at Senior Management auditing which the majority of Babcock auditors will not be auditing. \
Believe aims could have been delivered within a day.  Did not need two days.\
\
Course contains too much information for one day. Needs to be spread over two days, so the information can be absorbed and thoroughly delivered.\
\
\
This course has too much information for one day and should be done over two sessions\
Enjoyed the course, Jeff seemed very knowledgable with lots of experience. I liked the idea of doing actual internal audits as part of the course but there was not time to properly prepare and write up the report. Once trained and performing internal audits we would have a least a few days to prepare for the audit not 4hrs as in the course. When training and inexperienced you need more time to complete tasks not less. Similarly for the report there was not the time to write this properly and completely making that part of the course quite stressful. \
the venue was difficult to find - used Scarman centre directions off website and a roundabout was omitted!!!  added up tp 20 minutes to journey time and a degree of stress - especially with no mobile phone or satellite navigator!\
Very good, and well presented course. The knowledge of the presenters was valuable and all questions were answered concisely.\
A copy of the new standard to take away would have been a nice touch\
Some of the slide information was not correct, an update of slide required\
Very good course, very interesting with good examples given, good team activities too. \
\
Unfortunately I suspect that the subject matter is extremely difficult to convey without sending delegates to sleep. I noticed that the majority of delegates were yawning throughout the presentation. Future presentations need to be punchier, much much shorter and delivered with more passion. I do appreciate that ISO is a necessary standard however staff below management levels ALL find the process difficult to understand and hence are totally uninterested and uninformed of their requirements.\
A very informative course, good delivery pitched just right.\
\
Very good course, It exceed my expectations, theorical-practical well organized.\
Excellent course \
\
Overall a very good and well run course which met my objective.  Dave White proved  to be an excellent and interesting trainer.  \
\
A very well presented course, with many activities that helped to focus the mind. Liz had a delivery that what was clear and relevence based, allowing the group to particpate when clarity was needed and to be shared.\
Kevin was very engaging, which made the course much more accessible to all involved.\
\
\
Cannot fault anything.  Liz was an excellent trainer, she clearly knows her subject is passionate about what she does and this really came across in the training.  I do think I need to go back a step and now do the 9001 conversion course to enable me to write QMS for the organisation where I work.\
Very informative course in relation to my expectations\
I thought the venue was very good and I enjoyed the course, Sarah was engaging and made it interesting and interactive. It also helped that there was a good bunch of people on the course with me.\
.\
\
It was good to take part in a training course that was not 'Death by PowerPoint' \
Overall, the best course I have attended, which was complemented by 9 other happy attendees.\
Thoroughly enjoyed the course.\
I found the course refreshing, undoubtedly one of the best courses I have attended, much to do with Nick's style and manner. PowerPoint was not used at all... this was a first. I came away fulfilling my personal objectives.  I feel confident that I have enough background and practice to complete my 2016 business audit schedule - and looking forward to doing so. Once again - Great job Nick. Thanks very much. \
\
Postcode takes you to the last roundabout then tells you to take the third exit when it should be the first exit onto Scarman Rd, it takes you round in circles\
A very informative course, thank you David.\
A very informative course, thank you David.\
Excellent course delivered by possibly one of the best teachers i've had. The fact that over the two days we where subjected to 1 power point and instead where constantly involved in conversation and debate kept everyone engaged from start to finish over 2 long days. \
Very knowledgeable trainer and very helpful\
Very informative discussions.\
Well run course - good quality as always - thakyou\
\
\
\
I had thought there would be more content covering the environmental field but I understand the context with which everything was delivered and enjoyed the course\
\
Course was exactly what I was looking for and what I was expecting. Delivery and format was very interactive and hence more interesting and easier to absorb the material than PowerPoint slides alone. Course trainer clearly knew the material very well.\
\
Very well delivered, clear and informative\
\
The trainer was one of the best I have had.  Very informative, kept a heavy topic light so you could digest it.\
trainer was extremely knowledgeable but training at times, disjointed. Not much correlation between delivery of course content and actual course content materials. Training venue was good but room was too small, too cramped with (in my opinion) too many attendees (14). Taking all this into account, training was over too short a period. Certain elements of the training (65% preparation part) should have been addresses over a full day at least.\
Excellent course, trainer was first class and extremely knowledgeable on the subject.  Provided relevant information to give an understanding of the changes and food for thought on how to plan the transition.\
Dave was very helpful and ensured on each day my dietary requirements were met. He kept the course entertaining and everyone fully engaged at all times.\
Excellent course. The course tutor delivered the course in a very digestible , light hearted manner.  He was very approachable and helpful in every way. \
n/a\
I was a last minute substitution which would have impacted availability / timing of pre course information.\
\
\
\
THe course fully met my needs at an introductory/overview level.\
Admin issues (not enough copies of delegate materials) took up time on day one resulting in the last session being rushed.  Day 2 was much better. The course seemed to spend a lot of time looking back at ISO 9001:2008 and several exercises required us to read 2008 instead of 2015. Hotel was a good location for me but we experienced several maintenance issues over the 2 days.  \
\
One of the toilets was blocked therefore couldn't use it.  During one of the breaks the toilets were out of order having to go back to reception which was on a different floor.  During one of the breaks the coffee machines were out of order. The desserts ran out during lunch time. The air con made a loud noise when it was on. The flip chart stand broke whilst the trainer was writing on it.\
Hotel and service was very good. Training and it's delivery was also good. I thought that there was a varying level of attendees knowledge, so though that perhaps we could have gone deeper into the subject matter had the trainer not had to spend so much time bringing people with lesser knowledge up to the same level. \
At the start of the course we were asked what we wanted from it. Many attendees commented they would like to be shown how the new standard (14001: 2015) should be audited. Although the course gave guidance on how to be an 14001 and 18001 auditor, it did not provide any specific insight on how the new standard requirements should be included in an audit.   All the attendees were experienced auditors and this was not taken into account by the course tutor.  As he is an experienced tutor he could have changed the content and timings by shortening the formal tuition, (as everyone already understood the principles of auditing)  to allow for more time the practical. Extra time comparing and contrasting our audits would have been particularly beneficial for the company,  as it would have harmonised and standardised the SHE auditing across the UK sites. \
Couldn't fault anything and Dave White was excellent\
\
\
I thought the course overall was very good and would recommend as a course to explain the new ISO 9001:2015 standard. However my understanding was that the course would explain the main differences between 2008 and the 2015 standard. The course was very informative and did explained the new standard. This was the first time the course had been run and the last part of it was rushed to bring within the allocated time, this did not detract from what was a very good course.\
Albert made the course enjoyable with his personality and sense of humour.\
This was planned as a workshop, but delivered as an interactive briefing. As an interactive briefing it worked extremely well. However, if run as a workshop, it would need more time and a larger room, for the size of group.\
Training overall was good, only issue was that it felt quite rushed and not all of the section were covered in s much detail as the timeframes suggested in the contents page.\
\
Trainer was excellent, with another trainer the subject could have been quite dull, but our trainer kept the pace up with out rushing through the material.  Room was a just too small for the number of people, I sat at the front and got a crick in my neck from constantly having to turn my head, so not the most comfortable experience, not sure about the logic of bacon rolls at the coffee break,  it was too close to lunch - would have appreciated them on arrival.\
\
My secretary had to chase to find out the start time of the course, there was no itinerary issued in advance.  The conference room in the Novotel was barely able to accommodate the number of attendees.\
\
The trainer adjusted the course to the location and the attendees more to a briefing style than a workshop which actually suited the course material much better.  Due to this i have recommended our senior management attend at the next opportunity. I think the course would have been much less useful it it had been completed in the way it was planned.\
The course was a bit rushed and the trainer allowed himself to get into a debate on the NHS which could not see the purpose of.\
this was an excellent course that gave a greater understanding to the new Standards.\
Great trainer and I'm now convinced the next version QMS can actually support and improve our business strategy going forward. Thank you.\
\
\
Excellent course and the facilitator kept it on track. It would be beneficial to make it clear to future attendees that the course only covers the changes from the 2004 standard and will not cover areas that remain from the 2004 standard.  I also believe it will be worth explaining to attendees to bring their own copy of the 2015 standard to the course. This way they will be able to make specific notes against the relevant clauses\
I would recommend to ask delegates to bring a copy of the standard with them to the course, to allow them to annotate their own copy. Or you could provide the delegates with a copy of the standard.  It would be good if the course could provide ideas on how to implement some of the requirements, in order to help the delegates gain a picture/understanding of what they are trying to produce at the end, in order to meet the requirements.   Overall, a very informative course. \
Excellent course brilliantly delivered.\
\
Thank you Nick Gerrard,   It was a very well run and enjoyable course. I learnt a lot re: Annex SL and Process Diagrams -which i will value moving forwards.   Best wishes, Nicola\
\
\
The location postcode leads you to another car parking area, I did get lost on the first day, I think it would be useful to have  map of the university with the Radcliffe training centre marked out.\
The course was the first of its kind and seemed to be spread across too wide an audience type.  On recognising that the audience had a majority of Directors the course was modified during the session to better fit. A suitably tailored course would have been better.\
\
Visitors car parking area was very small \
room a bit cold!\
The trainer made a dry subject very entertaining. Useful event  for us to move on with the transition.\
\
Course was particularly valuable because of the low number of attendees, giving opportunity for discussion about personal situations. However, the day was still full, and it is difficult to see how the content could have been delivered in the time if the number of trainees had been higher.  The practical exercises were excellent and definitely helped to reinforce the learning.\
\
\
\
It was good to see that the course focussed on the new requirements and was not padded out with elements of the old standard.\
\
Excellent, clear and well structured. Albert's writing up of the model on the first day was brilliant.\
\
A very good course well delivered with an excellent tutor.\
\
\
The course was very well structured and excellently taught!\
I personally enjoyed the practical role play, which always helps cement the knowledge learnt\
\
A very good overview and clearly identifies the expectation / transition from 'Quality' assurance to 'Business' management. The A5 laminated booklet version of the standard was used frequently during the presentation, it is a shame that source material was not part of the trainee pack to retain.  I am aware it can be purchased but the cost was prohibitive for all attendees.  It may be a thought to consider a significant discounted price for a block purchase for future courses?  \
"the trainer made some comments which made me feel uncomfortable and unwanted in that group. -	if I  don\'82\'c4\'f4t understand English I could ask my colleagues,  -	some comments about Romanian gipsy (indirectly referring to me)"\
\
Typo in the handout and two sentences in the training materials which needed to be removed\
Very Good course excellent delivery\
\
\
Excellent course . Dave White was extremely knowledgeable and made the content interesting and relevant.' \
Albert is a very approachable trainer, the only element of the 3 day course I could criticise was the case study company relating to the Alarm system. It was far too difficult to relate to it without an understanding of the company. I found the fact Albert still included the graphical representation section into the course as it is extremely useful and visuals would only benefit us as a manufacturing company. I will definitely be looking into the Lead Auditor course and would hope to have Albert conducting it again as I value his knowledge and teaching technique.\
\
\
\
"\'82\'c4\'a2	Before the course I just read ISO 22000 and caught the most important information, but now - thanks to the training, I can better understand and connect, individual paragraphs together - make good use in my work \'82\'c4\'a2	I learned great techniques that I can use in the daily work (for me the best - checklist for auditing) \'82\'c4\'a2	I could get to know my strengths and weaknesses and then develop them \'82\'c4\'a2	Pretending 'real' audit - very educational \'82\'c4\'a2	Dave - the best coach. I admire that he worked many hours every day, and you couldn\'82\'c4\'f4t see his tiredness "\
It was a great training that helped is going through the standard ans helped me understanding better the ISO 22000\
great trainer who engaged all participants, great use of flip over charts instead of powerpoint slides\
Mike was excellent and used many different methodologies for delivery.  The subject matter was detailed in many aspects  and Mikes approach helped us to understand. Personally im not good at exams and id prefer a combination of multiple choice questions and current format but accept this is not an LRQA decision. It doesnt mean i dont have a understanding of the course but i feel i may not have passed the exam......\
Comment 1:  The majority of this course was based around the QMS Requirements relating to ISO 9001:2015.  I was however disappointed to find out that we would not be provided with a permanent copy of the booklet given the emphasis placed on it during the course and the overall cost of the course.  Comment 2:  Emphasis was placed on the requirement for a QMS manual (albeit a requirement of the 9001:2008 standard) and the need for a management review report following a management review.  I would have appreciated a generic example/template of a good QMS manual and completed MR report to enable us to appreciate positive examples.  Bearing in mind a negative example of a QMS manual was used as a teaching point throughout the course.  Comment 3:  Excellent trainer can you thank Albert on my behalf - very informative and relaxed teaching style. \
\
\
\
Very good overall Good pace Great delivery - passionate and knowledgeable\
Excellent training, tailored to the group and paced accordingly, would definitely recommend to others.\
\
\
\
Only comment - for me, training was bit light on ISO 14001 new standard content.\
Only comment - for me, training was bit light on ISO 14001 new standard content.\
Overall a very good experience. I really appreciate the interaction in the course allowing me to test the skills we have been discussing.\
A very well executed course - I especially liked that Nick stuck to timings and there was no drift on that.  \
\
Mistakenly? thought the course was more about the contents and requirements of the new ISO14001 std. The content on how's and whys of auditing was a good refresher for me, having done this course via LRQA years ago. During the course I thought the subject matter and method of delivery was a bit disjointed, but it seemed to come together for the role play section\
The examples were a bit vague\
This course suited our requirements perfectly. The trainer supplemented the training material with additional material and explanations at very short notice. \
David Lawson was an excellent course tutor and I cannot imagine the course content being delivered any better than it was.\
I did not book the course and therefore cannot comment\
\
Ants on table in the main room, not completely cured for second day Break facilities poor, tea/coffee/water not labelled Only small plate of biscuits except on last break when recycled lunch fruit cut up and presented.\
Course was a real struggle. the combination of ISO9001 with Mars QMP didn't help but overall the pace was very slow and hard to follow.   As a trainer I found Paul to struggle flexing to the styles of the trainee's. it felt at times it was as much about what we thought then what he thought which didn't inspire confidence in the material we were learning. luckily the training materials are excellent which does help.   overall I believe the course really needs a revamp to fit the objective of it. my main take out is that quality auditing is about the PDCA style and pracitscing it, the role play exercises were excellent and we could of done with doing 3-4 of these over 2 days rather than the one.  we also only got the pre-read that day which made it feel like a very rushed agenda.\
Massively intense course but made thoroughly enjoyable by Albert who went over and above by continuing to work on the course despite having had a bad tooth problem. He was an excellent trainer and brought the group together extremely well. Despite the intensity he made everything clear and easily understandable to us laymen, whilst injecting fun and laughter which was not an easy task considering the schedule. Massive thanks to Albert for his professionalism and support. The course materials would have scored excellent had there been no spelling errors and grammatical errors in the pre-course and course materials. As a quality organisation I would have hoped for these to be error free, sorry. Special thanks to Julie, Catering Manager, who managed to cater for my very specific requirements with a smile every day and very good her choices were too. All the staff with whom I came into contact were exceptionally professional and welcoming. Would definitely recommend LRQA to others and whilst I was there, I decided that I would use your certification services for the company with whom I am working. Thank you to everyone involved from the initial enquiry to the final day, your hospitality and support was very much appreciated.\
\
The trainer was excellent, knowledgeable and allowed you to progress at your own pace, while keeping in mind the overall objectives of the course. \
Marek was a particularly impressive trainer with his extensive in-depth expertise and experience ... exactly the right guy IMO.  Accommodation and meals were good though table service was very slow.  Course notes were appropriate, however I was most disappointed to be told we were not to retain the convenient A5 hard copy of the ISO14001:2015 standard at the core of this \'ac\'a3780 course. [Please feel free to forward a copy retrospectively to Colin Gourlay, 2nd Floor Main Office Block, Rosyth Business Park, Fife KY11 2YD. Thank you.\
Marek was a particularly impressive trainer with his extensive in-depth expertise and experience ... exactly the right guy IMO.  Accommodation and meals were good though table service was very slow.  Course notes were appropriate, however I was most disappointed to be told we were not to retain the convenient A5 hard copy of the ISO14001:2015 standard at the core of this \'ac\'a3780 course. [Please feel free to forward a copy retrospectively to Colin Gourlay, 2nd Floor Main Office Block, Rosyth Business Park, Fife KY11 2YD. Thank you.\
\
Due to administrative issues I did not receive the pre-course information prior to the course. \
This was an excellent course, Albert is a credit to the company, His ability to turn a seemingly dull subject into an enjoyable training week was incredible, his vast knowledge and experience shone through during the duration of the training.  Please pass on my thanks to Albert.\
Keith our Trainer was utterly superb. His knowledge was shared, portrayed and delivered in a manner that was intuitive, easy to absorb and extremely professional yet delivered in a way that wasn't intimidating considering the complex subject matter of the course. Your trainer is a credit to your organisation. The facilities, although a great location was fair - the food was extremely poor and this is an important factor as the afternoons being the biggest session of the day left me hard to concentrate with a rumbling tummy!\
\
\
Met our expectations completely and gave us some new ideas as to how to present to our Clients the new standard. Many thanks to Liz.\
\
Unfortunately as the course was only 4 hours not all aspects could be covered and felt rushed.\
The trainer was excellent and very knowledgeable. I do worry that it will be difficult to make use of the hand outs in future when I need help. I am not completely confident that I am not yet a competent auditor. Fortunately the trainer is very helpful and has shared his email, to be contacted with any questions. After experiencing this course, I would be happy to use LRQA for training in future.\
The facility was good for the meeting rooms and facilities in general but I was surprised that the bathroom in the hotel room was not as clean as I would have expected\
\
Really good effort to make a subject like ISO so engaging.\
Pre Course material did not arrive and I had to use a slightly out of date version one of my colleagues had from a previous course.\
Some simple errors and confusion on allowance and food organisation spoiled an otherwise great course and great tutor\
\
The course did over-run a little but this was dealt with by the trainer who asked if we were able to stay longer to finish the presentation - just felt a little rushed then. Trainer was clearly very knowledgeable and most helpful - offering to stay later to answer any questions. Environment was comfortable and well organised. \
Marek was extremely knowledgeable about the subject and made it very interesting and entertaining for everyone on the course.  He was very good at getting everyone to participate and give examples of environmental issues based on their  company's experiences.\
\
\
\
It served to confirm we are in a good place regarding 45001 \
The course materials were really helpful, especially in order to analyse processes.  It would have been great to have some more time on working towards as 'To be' process but I appreciate time was limited.\
dietary requirements given but hotel had to be reminded, had to pay extra for the eveing meal\
\
The trainer was knowledgable and engaging, the course was planned to be shorter than normal. I feel the 2nd half was condensed too much, whilst the first half could have been condensed more. \
\
Group work/exercises could have been better to help discussion and interaction\
Despite having confirmed several times that the training was tailored for a half-day, it was apparant that this had not been done so the event felt like a rush through and the best use of practical exercieses was not possible\
Liz made the content easier to understand and put it in to the context of each of our organisations. The content which could of been very dry was explained in a simpler, more interesting manner which made the course more enjoyable. The facilities at the westerwood were very professional and the food was exceptional, especially as I was there on training, you do not expect the level of quality that they provided. \
\
Very informative course. \
Informative and constructive course delivered by an excellent trainer.  It would have been helpful to know we were receiving pre-course work because some attendees (not myself) did not receive the pre-course pack for various reasons. If the attendees knew they were expecting pre-course packs this could have been followed up by the attendees if it wasn't received.  In the feedback section above 'Booking and facilities', it is not clear the difference between the first question 'How did you rate the facilities, admin etc.' and the third question ' Facilities'. This appears to be asking to rate the same item.\
It is not clear how I am supposed to answer the scale of 1 - 10 question - may be a problem with my browser Trainer was personable and engaging.  Time allowed for the course proved inadequate, with over 50% of slides etc still to be delivered with only 45 minutes left resulting in somewhat rushed delivery and an overrun on planned time. Possibly due to the amount of time given by trainer to introducing self and for members of the group to provide their background, but this did allow him to utilise practical scenarios relative to the audience in explaining the new standard. I would have preferred the provided training materials (booklet containing copies of the slides) to have included space for note taking.\
The facilities were good, Great hotel and location, I personally had a few issues with Room Service and as my company booked the room directly for me some issues with trying to pay for the room.  When we were leaving to get the shuttle to the station, we asked the receptionist to call us, but were waiting longer than we should of as no one came up to get us? We had to chase, just seems a lack of management and communication which is a shame as the staff are very polite and try to help.    \
I didn't receive the information before I went on the course. Ideally LRQA should confirm with the person who booked the course or the attendee that they received the information in good time. Also, the room used for the course was a nice location, apart from the regular disturbance of helicopters taking off and landing at the heliport right outside the window!! This was a novelty for the 1st day but an annoyance by the last, especially during the exam!\
My personal thought was that  I felt the afternoon session seemed  rushed covering more sections.  Some of the morning practical sessions could have been quicker with more open classroom discussions.    Overall comment an informative course.\
The course was both testing and enjoyable, the Trainer was extremely knowledgeable and provided support and feedback throughout. The training exercises were varied and included the use of team working and role playing, all of which I felt suitably prepared us for the final exam  The location and amenities were excellent and I would certainly recommend this course to a fellow colleague.\
The course note content was good. It could be made better by paying attention to font size in slide printouts. In some instances, particularly on block diagrams illustrating the structure of the standard by clause, some of this was too small. In addition, overlays were used, obscuring the info behind. Can these not be A4 printouts, and separate pages for original and overlaid slides.?\
\
David Lawson was a fantastic tutor throughout the course.  I did not receive any pre-course information, an itinerary would be useful.\
I think the case study could have something that could be more  related to ? e.g. a small to medium company with product sales, services, manufacture, warehousing, finance or similar,  which would make the ability to relate to the course work easier more understandable and comparable.\
\
The course content was very good and the course delivery was brilliant. The trainer had a lot of in depth industry knowledge to bring his examples of the subject matter to life and help put it all into context. He was also very adaptable and flexible in terms of identifying individual learning needs, without compromising the speed and coverage of the material and sessions. Enjoyed every aspect of the course due to its interactive nature including group work, mock interviews and so on. The daily feedback on the trainee's progress is also a very good element of the course and gives a clear steer on individual engagement throughout the week, and demonstration of specific skills and application of learning's from course. Very pleased with the quality of the course and course delivery in particular. Trainer had great rapport with all as well as a very friendly and approachable personality. \
\
The course did not cover anything additional to the previous two day course I attended (Prepqaring for ISO 14001:2015) The trainer was competent but hampered by the set course material provided.\
I enjoyed the course,  it was informative without being too rushed or drawn out.  Gave me a sound understanding of the new standard and how to audit it.\
I felt a lot more made sense for this course after attending the previous Appreciation and Interpretation day. Again so much information to take in but nowhere near as overwhelming as the Appreciation and Interpretation day. I gained a lot and learned a wealth of information to take away and implement.\
I found the course useful however there is so much information to take in in one day I think if you had not previously had any understanding of ISO before you would feel completely overwhelmed\
\
The course was well run and Keith Mythen was very knowledgeable and humorous which kept the course interesting and running smoothly. The two day course covered a lot of material but was never dull and although I had previously attended an internal auditor course I found this very beneficial and would highly recommend I to others. \
Overall, Dave was an excellent Trainer with a wealth of knowledge and experience. It was unfortunate the pre-course training materials did not arrive prior. However, overall the course was very good.\
David has a wealth of knowledge and a good delivery technique.  We didn't get the pre-course material, but understand it was a problem our end, David managed this with ease.\
Pre course info was not really needed. Trainer was knowledgeable and kept the group engaged. Made for a good training session.\
\
Thoroughly enjoyed the course. Much learnt to enable us to progress forward towards our transition to 2015.\
I understand that it can be difficult to gauge 'Time' whilst arranging 'site' training.  The tutor did try and maintain the course on schedule - but I found the last afternoon a little rushed.  It was imperative that many of us leave the site by4PM for trains home to various parts of the country.  It was evident at lunchtime on the final day that some items would have to be 'compressed' or missed off.\
Albert was a very friendly, informative and very knowledgeable trainer. He articulated himself very well and had an interesting manner and personality which is nice to see. \
Trainer was very good.  Buffet could be improved i.e. more choice \
I don't normally award 'top marks' for a training course but I thought Kevin led the course very well.  What could have been quite a dry topic was delivered in an engaging way and with a good mix of teaching and hands-on exercises.\
\
\
I thoroughly enjoyed the course and learnt a lot. Dave is a great trainer - we were lucky to have him.\
\
\
The course was more in-depth that I thought it would be and felt that we had to rush through certain parts of it to get it all done in a day and some people were loosing concentration.  May hold this course over 2 days or look at reducing the content.\
It was one of the best courses I have attended in my professional career. Thoroughly enjoyed the course content and the way it was taught. Dave is the best trainer I have met so far. He has answers to all the questions and is patient to listen to your questions no matter how trivial they are. Overall a very invigorating  course.\
\
I enjoyed the course and Keith's delivery of the subject matter.\
Paul Smith is clearly a very knowledgeable and experienced trainer and was able to articulate the changes from the ISO 9001:2008 to the 2015 standard.  His additional awareness of the 14001:2015 Standard was also apparent.  The course itself however, could have been compressed into a one day course, just highlighting the key differences.  Lead auditors should be experienced in the types of evidence required to meet audit requirements, spotting disparities in evidence and interviewing senior company leaders.  Therefore the value in reminding them of these skills and turning what could be a one day course (in my view) into a two day course is limited.\
Excellent course, very professionally run by the knowledgeable trainer. Relaxed but informative\
\
tough but good course \
At times Paul was lively & engaging.  At other times he gave the impression that he was reading the course notes for the first time, minutes before presenting to us. There was a focus on standard's new structure, organisational context, top management responsibilities, leadership & risk/opportunity management - all good. There was one use of role play - this could have been utilised more to embed a deeper understanding. Perhaps one or two video clips would have helped break up the presentations.\
Great content and excellent knowledge of the subject, Dave is a fantastic training and his style and approach could not be questioned. Very professional. I would definitely recommend this course and the trainer\
\
1) It was very frustrating that the presenter used slides that weren't in the course notes.  It is nearly a fortnight later and still I have not been emailed  with the revised course notes.  I did request this.  2) It would have been helpful for the trainer to have assumed that no one knew about ISO 45001 and taught it assuming no prior knowledge.   \
The course was well delivered.  I went with no knowledge at all of Audit or ISO standards, however I now feel I have a understanding of both areas in order for me to complete the tasks which MHR have asked me to undertake.  \
The trainer (Liz) has a very professional but engaging manner. The pace of the course was just right.\
\
\
\
Really enjoyed the course, I liked to fact that Keith was able to discuss real live examples of his experience. I personally would have preferred to complete the 2 day audit course whereby I obtained a qualification not a certificate as I understand we will be getting.\
\
Alfred was relaxed, humorous, well on top of his subject and made us all feel relaxed.  He taxed our personal knowledge, sought answers from us (quite rightly) without being overpowering.  A very good presenter and a good presentation.\
The only negative on the course was some of the questions were not precise enough in what was required, leading to misinterpretation on a number of occasions.\
\
The only concern I have is that the email informing of the room requirements (size & layout) did not state a projector and flip chart was required.  However, the trainer did phone and request one of each. As a suggestion, would it be beneficial to add this request on the email, or for the trainer to bring his own?\
\
\
The course was informative, but there was a lot of content to take in during the two days.  Was slightly overwhelmed at times.  However I will be conducting my first Audit in the next week or so.\
\
\
\
There is a lot of information to take in during this shortened course.\
\
Very well put together course, could have done with 3 days not 2 though as quite a lot of new skills to learn.\
The Tutor has an excellent understanding of the standard and how to apply it in the business context.\
\
\
\
\
Detailed course opening the way for my team to thoroughly investigate problems, but also obtain business buy-in to aid resolution.\
Excellent course, presented by an extremely knowledgeable Trainer with a wealth of experience.  \
\
\
\
The course went rather well , I was apprehensive before it started , but Paul did a great job of putting everyone at ease  \
Excellent course leader, very interactive with loads of real life scenarios. A pleasure.\
We were sent some Pre-course work, but the font and/or justification made this hard to read. I emailed to explain this and was sent a printed copy exactly as I had printed myself. on arriving at the course one of the other attendees ahd not received the pre-course reading so it was initially ignored. Trainer suggested there should have been some questions for us to answer pre-course, but all we had was a case study to read. I think this needs sorting before next course\
I felt the course content was improved by being tailored to our specific business rather than classroom exercises.  We were able to do this as it was a dedicated course for our business.  Being able to go out into the factory made the whole process more hands on and relevant.   \
The trainer was great at bringing the group together - icebreakers etc.  However his personal opinions on environmental issues (which were often maverick and non-evidence based - e.g. contesting climate science) clouded the course.  In addition, more time was spent chatting and we rushed through the exercises - in fact I don't believe we completed all the exercises in the training materials.  I was quite disappointed as I did my Lead Auditor training with one of your female trainers and I rated that 5/5 and would highly recommend.  \
\
\
\
\
\
Really useful course for me to identify that main changes and how to follow up back in the workplace, Liz was really helpful.\
Food at lunch was very poor and the choices were few. \
\
It took 3 days to get something worth eating for lunch. Liz did her best to arrange food suitable for all.\
\
The three days we have spent being updated on the new 9001:2015 requirements have been extremely informative. The instructor Dave White was one of the most informed subject matter expert I have had the pleasure of meeting. His training style was pitched at the audience at the right place to advance those who had less experience and exposure to the current standards while pushing all levels to a higher understanding.  I felt the engagement of all trainees was maintained throughout the three days and the overall benefits to the individuals and therefore the company will be seen over the next two years during the transition and recertification to the 2015 standard. If you speak to Dave in the near future please pass on my Thanks.\
\
\
\
Whilst the actual training facilities were good, the accommodation and meals were less impressive. Particularly the lunchtime buffet arrangements which, although it did not directly affect me, seemed to show no thought for any special dietary requirements. The staff also seemed to be somewhat confused with the operation of the dinner, B&B arrangement booked through LRQA.  On a positive note, I do have to commend the trainer, Liz, who I thought was excellent and made the course very enjoyable and enlightening.\
The course was very useful and well delivered. Dave kept the content interesting and informative and I would highly recommend it.\
The course was delivered in a very rushed manner.  It was difficult to follow where we were in the course materials due to the speed at which the trainer spoke and clicked past much of it.\
\
\
Vic was very knowledgeable and delivered the course well.\
\
Very good course due to no fault of LRQA I don't think this was the correct course for my job requirements, It may be a good idea for your company to gain the attendees email address at time of registering and send course notes, joining instructions direct as I did not get mine until last minute, enjoyable course not sure it was right for me.\
\
Fantastic course, The trainer was very experienced and made the course enjoyable.\
\
As  an initial overview   the importance  certainly resonated  with me. As I frequently say to people if you can get people to buy into  what you are trying to achieve, you have a chance of success David certainly did that.\
The room was extremely warm during the day\
The comments above are for Wayne Roden who delivered 95% of the course. \
\
\
\
Nick made the course interesting especially the excises and everyone working together\
Training room was very cold\
\
A good informative course for a difficult subject which becomes clearer over the two days.\
\
Keith was fantastic, making a dry subject more fun to learn about.\
An excellent course which as a prelude to 2015 crossover really served its purpose, and as a newcomer to the environmental standards is was a great learning opportunity.  The tutor Nick was very engaging and incredibly knowledgeable which made the whole learning experience fullfilling.\
Very useful course - learnt a lot.  Will certainly help going forward for transition to ISO9001:2015.\
Really enjoyable, informative.  Excellant trainer, engaged with everyone and performed regular sense checks to make sure that the training was hitting  everyones objectives \
Course was tailored for our requirements\
\
\
I thought the course was fantastic, i would highly reccommend this to other people in our organisation\
Dave White was the trainer. The Churchill meeting room isn't suitable for training sessions.\
\
great course, really interactive and got us all talking. it met all of our different objectives and even managed to make a start at facilitating to help us move forward with senior managers.\
Nick was a very good instructor, patient and able to address our individual business needs by adapting focus points and discussions around areas that concerned or interested us\
\
Liz was brilliant, course was better than I expected. \
\
I would recommend the course to anyone who wants to have a better understanding of the transition from 2008 to 2015. It gave me much more information than just going for the seminar about the transition. Liz is an excellent trainer!\
\
\
Felt that the hands on approach to our specific site was much more beneficial to us \
Keith, the Tutor of the course was brilliant. I found him very engaging and informative.\
The Tutor was Dave White  With companies trying to reduce costs all the time i often wonder if they venues LRQA select are value for money or of a more cost effective venue could be found.  the biggest issue i have with the overall course was the room layout. whilst i understand why it was layed out we spent 2 days looking at a projector screen that was between 2 very large windows with no blinds / curtains etc. and it happened to be very nice days so we struggled a bit to see the screen also with people walking in front of the windows outside i found it very distracting and found it hard to focus and gave me a headache by the end of the days.\
\
The trainer for the group I was in was David White.  Liz Mansfield was working with another group on the same course. David's training style was excellent and encouraged group discussions which helped my understanding of the subject. \
\
\
\
Lowellyne James was an absoutely terrific teacher. He was extremely informative, knowledgeable, explained the contents of the EMS is very clear and understandable way. A credit to LRQA. Thank you very much for such a enjoyable and informative couple of days, which have given me a new framework to work towards. \
Liked that the trainer allowed us to carry out exercises based on the company we work for. I felt I learned significantly more than if we had done exercises based on an imaginary company. Would recommend the trainer to anyone else looking to do similar training.\
\
\
\
I did make you aware that i have a severe nut allergy, but unfortunately the venue had not prepared a special plate as you told me, i was limited to the choice of a jacket potato, as nothing else had been prepared, and no deserts were save for me.\
Best training facilities I've seen. Course itself was very good although terminology was new to me and could have been explained better or an idiots guide provided.  Seemed to be aimed higher than foundation level. The exam was difficult and covered the requirements of a high level assessor rather than a foundation level user.\
My trainer was David White and not Liz Mansfield as specified. The room was not setup for the correct number. There was two of us who weren't expected. Some confusion on the Venues behalf as to which room we were in. David was absolutely brilliant at getting the QMS message across and clarified all my misgivings over the whole process. he was totalling dedicated to the QMS and engaged everyone in the group. He added lots of value through personal knowledge to all aspects of the sessions. A big thank you to Dave.\
There was a lack of where to meet at the venue, i.e. Officers Mess for coffee before starting. I was left wondering where to go as the room was locked.   Overall, as some on new to Quality Management systems it was a very valuable introduction to the following 2 day course.\
The content could have been covered in 1 day. It spent time on some areas where the standard has changed little if t all. This may be relevant for organisations new to the standard but we are an aerospace organisation with detailed experience.\
\
\
Very good, Marek delivered course very well. at a level good to follow.\
\
\
\
\
The course was made interesting and enjoyable by the trainer. \
\
\
\
Enjoyed the training course, really liked Kevins approach made me feel comfortable to ask questions if I was unsure on anything.  Took a lot away from the course would be happy to participate in a another especially if  Kevin was to be the tutor.  Also Brian sat in on this course he was also very approachable and will make a good tutor in my opinion.\
Minor issues as a couple of the slides did not have handouts \
\
\
\
\
\
The course went on 30 minutesd longer than scheduled, which was inconvenient.\
The trainer is remarkable and during the training I got a lot of insights and valuable information. The training was interactive and the training material was very well structured and easy to be followed.\
\
\
\
Everything was remarkable.  I was very impressed by the quality of the materials and the trainer was very knowledgeable and his technical and soft skills are very high. I am so thankful for all I have got.\
Excellent course.  The course was intensive, but the trainer's humour helpped eliviate any stress.  Alot to think about and take away,but the course was highly enjoyable.\
Very enjoyable course and the trainer made it a joy to learn rather than a mandatory course and going through the motions.\
\
Excellent course and well delivered by Albert. He was interactive and with all the tasks assigned he ensured we could make links to real life situations with the material which made it much easier to understand. \
Excellent course - fully met my expectations and objectives.   Everyone participated and this helped make it a better learning experience overall.\
I know that sandwiches are an easy way of serving food for people and personnel but 5 days in a row without any changes in the content might be considered so it is only every other day. And as this course are long days it should be considered when ordering the menu for the course so there might be some more vegetables and fruit.\
The course was excellent and the instructor (Lis Mansfield) presented the information very well.\
The course was hard work but made enjoyable by Brian. Also the group size of 6 was perfect and gave each person enough time to ask questions, gain feedback and take turns in guiding / leading the group work.\
Issues with the booking process and using our discount codes.  The main training room was small for 8 delegates and 2 trainers.   Would prefer the powerpoint slides up front or in our packs.  Some slides were missing from the manual. \
Did not recive any Pre-course material \
\
\
Trainer was informative and knowledgeable and mixed group work and discussion ensuring all attendees full participation. Excellent facilities and good food. \
\
\
\
\
The written Programme for the course seemed to cover everything we wanted learn, however it was a shame we couldn't have our requested trainer - Brian Baron - as he was aware of our situation and needs.  It was Brian who suggested this course and we feel he would have delivered it nearer to our needs. Kevin's style of delivery was found to be confusing and references to the 9001:2008 standard weren't a requirement for us and some colleagues on the course found this distracting.  A great deal of emphasis was placed on the Process Approach, but  the overall ISO9001 Structure and content was summed up at the end of the course.  Most people felt the course could have been presented within half a day - without the many references to previous jobs/situations and general digressions.  \
\
Open discussion and exercises made the course interesting and enjoyable throughout the day.\
\
\
\
Course very informative and Trainer very knowledgeable on all subjects asked. Stephen Very professional and approachable on all aspects. I feel I have a better understanding on  the approach of TS16949 and how to understand the requirements needed to support our business, Also found the reading of TS 16949 standard more clearly, which would help in future audits. I would recommend this training course for all new comers as I have learned new ideas of approach, even though I have a little knowledge of TS16949. Direction of Building could be more clear as a small sign at the back of the Training Block  building, was the only main concern to find the Radcliffe training Centre.\
Didn't have much information about the course before taking part - joining instructions only came a couple of days before attendance, no map included, didn't know where I was going. It was local to home though which was good, although I didn't know it was going to be an LRQA run course before I attended, why wasn't it held a the new LRQA Birmingham offices, as we have training facilities there? I thought the course was going to deal more with the TS rules rather than the TS standard. Having said that he information provided was of a very good standard, and it has improved my knowledge of the subject\
\
The course was great, very informative. I would be good to have the course note electronically - we are trying to go paperless in the office here. There were a few things that David said he would email - I have not seen that yet  I would suggest that you mention that the training is in Scarman House, Scarman Road because I was not the only one to be looking for the centre on Gibbet Hill Road.  \
\
Enjoyed the course, very well led by Steve and good mix of people on the course to support discussion\
\
the trainer has sufficient depth of knowledge to present the topic, however the presentation needs some significant polishing as it came across very poorly.\
Good relaxed course. Excellent venue.\
No follow up call from admin to ensure I had received joining notes and materials, I had to chase couple of days prior to training course. Other than that great meet all my expectations\
Hi  A really insightful course which provided me with good information, relevant to my role.  Steve Lees who ran the course was excellent and was very understanding of the TS knowledge held by the LRQA representatives and also external clients on the course.  His personality and knowledge was perfect and kept the discussion interesting at all times providing stories of visits he had performed and issues that arose from them.  Overall very worthwhile.  Only concern is that we were sold the move to the new UK site in Birmingham on the understanding that, to cut future costs, courses like this would be held here in Birmingham.  So not sure why it was held at Warwick University.  Having known about the course since early November 2015, surely to reduce costs it could have been arranged to be held in Birmingham ?  Regards  Steve \
Great course and well presented\
\
\
Great training facilities, only issue was finding the Radcliffe Training Building, due to no signposts.  Good delivery, as it was not death by PowerPoint - lot's of interacting / case studies.\
\
As ever I find LRQA training courses of a high standard, with excellent course content and extremley knowledgable trainers\
The course was handled well and went through the necessary updates and questions I had.\
\
\
The only comment I would make is that one of the attendees was constantly on his phone dealing with work whether that me taking a call, making a call or text. This was a distraction even though Sarah had told us to minimalize the number of disruptions by phone at the start of the course. The gentleman clearly did not want to be there and was only there as a 'tick' box exercise as was evident in his very limited involvement in group exercises.\
\
\
\
A very rewarding course, something I am looking forward to putting into practice.\
I personally did not like the way the room was laid out as I had my back to other members of the course. I also felt that the lunches lacked substance/qty especially on the last day of the course due to having to travel home.\
\
\
\
\
The course was excellently delivered, being a novice to this subject the content did look a little overwhelming but Keith soon put us at ease & delivered the course in a very enjoyable, easy to understand manner.\
Trainer made the course easy to understand, used humour to keep us interested and at all times was professional and focused on the tasks in hard.  Very impressed and would not hesitate to book another course.   Especially if Keith is the trainer.  Thank you.\
\
Nice venue, bit out of the way from anything else (e.g. for trying a different bar/pub in the evenings). good food, facilities, pool etc. good bedrooms, astonishing amount of conference rooms. We had a small group of 5 + trainer which I think worked well compared to some of the larger groups I have had training with before\
The trainer clearly knew his subject.  However, he spoke very fast when reading from the standard and when quoting definitions which was difficult to keep up with.  He can obviously scan read.  I am a slow reader and need to digest what is being said so I struggled in some areas.\
Not your fault, but chairs were uncomfortable and gave back ache\
I felt that if I had the training folder and read it myself I would have gotten a similar level of understanding. It felt that the trainer in most cases was ensuring he covers what is written on the slides word by word and not always using them to prompt further explanation to give deeper understanding and how to implement it in different scenarios. I felt that having David White in the room in addition to the trainer was very lucky.  Although he didn't always participate in all the discussions but every time he had joined the discussion he was making the point easily understandable, giving me understanding on how to apply it to my situation and fantastic summary on how to conform to the specific clause we were talking about. Course content was good, but I felt that I would have preferred the training to be run by David White or someone with similar understanding/experience of the standard and delivery capability  to have the full benefit of the content. This was my second training course by the same trainer and I felt the same way in the last training as well. Hence I wanted to make a comment on this to ensure we get our money's worth when we sign up for these trainings with an organisation like LRQA with all the great reputation. \
We had to chase the joining instructions and the course felt rushed in places.  The instructor was really knowledgeable and had industry experience which he related to us so his practical examples really helped me\
The only reason I would say it did not meet my objectives fully is because I had attended a similar course previously and the different levels of experience of the attendees made it a bit slow at times. I can't rate the Trainer's knowledge and delivery more. Sarah was very enthusiastic and made it a pleasure to learn for the two days. \
The course was well paced, with time given for gathering further information when unclear about discussion topics.  The case study was involving and lead us nicely into the changes to the standard and how to plan for these moving back to our organizations.   As is always the case with this type of course, it can be made or broken by the other participates and I felt that in this case, every member of the group brought knowledge the course.\
\
\
\
\
I was really happy with the trainer. He made a difficult topic understandable for us all. \
Very good course, good location and achieved its purpose.\
\
In what can often me an abstract subject, I feel to make it more interesting, beneficial and there should be more examples relating to the construction industry. Also, using Brookfield Metrics materials such as previous audits and examples of NCRs and observations raised, and also doing a mock audit of a construction site, would help us know how to apply the knowledge gained\
\
\
\
Excellent trainer!\
Facilities were excellent.\
Noise from AC is disturbing\
\
\
\
Paul was a fantastic trainer, and made the course good fun. The course was very practicle which I found to be better than 'over use of powerpoint' which Paul did not do. The venu was great also. \
Signs to the Radcliffe centre fail to direct you off the main through the campus, all attendees had trouble in finding the car park.\
Excellent course delivered by a very professional trainer.  I would definitely recommend this training provider.\
Overall the Course was very informative and updated.  \
the course could have been smaller in size as I thought  that due to the large size the topics sometimes went slightly of track our tutor did manage to rein some of the other members in but maybe a smaller course would have made it easier. \
\
\
Only issue had was regarding Interviewing as part of the audit process,  had an activity for 6 out of 7 groups not interacting with instructor. Result was lack of pace compared to remainder of course.\
\
A very well ran course with the trainer happy to tailor to the needs of the group :-)\
\
I did not receive the pre-course material until I asked for it.  The hotel 'St Georges' was very dated and the dinner menu not good. \
The packs we were issued did not match the presenter's slide show throughout and the format of the picks was difficult to follow in stances due to the numbers re-starting during every section break.  The second test paper came with an absurd amount of packaging given it's an EMS course...one sheet contained within polythene with a cardboard backer and a plastic cover sheet...\
Better directions were required to the Radcliffe Centre, I was nearly late as I could not find it - the postcode does not take you anywhere near the correct building and there are no signposts for it in the direction I came from.  You could try providing GPS coordinates for SatNavs or provide a map.\
\
Course content and materials where of a high standard with clear in depth information. \
The training material should be better organised to follow the training. Sometimes it was difficult to read the information due to being too small.  The last evaluation sheet handed on the last day had a lot packaging considering it was only one A4 paper (packaging included A4 carboard paper, A4 flexible plastic and the wrapping film). Too much waste for only a piece of paper!\
\
\
The tutor (David) used company specific examples in the group discussions, which made the learning more relevant to us.  He has an excellect understanding of the standard and how to interpret and apply it into practice.\
\
\
My summary scores for the course in general are lower as there where areas being covered due to attendees being at different stages of accreditation. \
Kevin is both knowledgeable and approachable. I found the course interactive and enjoyable.\
Overall, good course. Kevin explained in a way which meant it was easier to breakdown the standard terminology to bite size chucks to digest and understand. \
\
I have previously been on an ISO9001 lead auditor course taken by Kevin and the way he delivers the content and on how he engages the delegates is fantastic and thoroughly enjoyed the course.\
Booking was problematic, slow response to queries around how payment should be made etc Pre-course information was not provided to the delegate and had to be requested. Sending this information to the person who makes the payment rather than the confirmed delegate seems rather illogical.\
Course itself was useful, well-presented and provided new staff with a good grounding in ISO9001:2015 requirements. Unfortunately this was rather let down by the attitude of the LRQA Training Office staff when trying to change the date (25 days notice was given with a warning on 26th January that a hospital appointment might intervene). This meant my fellow director missed most of the session. Think some customer care training would be useful.\
\
\
I think Dave could have explained a little bit better. I feel like he rushed a little bit. Lots of information, not enough explanation.\
\
Enjoyed the Course, Dave White was very good at engaging all staff in the changes required.\
I thought the course was good and the trainer David white was very knowledgeable in his role as ISO 9001:2015 adviser.\
I found the course to be very informative of the changes required for ISO 9001:2015. Dave White our Trainer was very good at engaging all staff at different levels within our small company. We all enjoyed the course.\
\
\
\
The course was interactive and the trainer had a dynamic approach which kept the momentum going. The course definitely covered my expectations, subject was presented in a clear way. I'm confident that I will be able to use things that I've learned. \
\
\
No Instructions of how to reach the Training Venue on foot from the recommended hotel (Crowne Plaza).   A small comment regarding route eg. go into the NEC the nhead towards station / airport etc...  helps to get across the railway line... (Hotel Reception staff were not sure how to get to Trinity Park)\
\
\
\
Overall a good couser detailing the differences between ISO9001:2008 and ISO9001:2015, tailored to our company's needs.\
\
Unfortunately the course I was due to attend on the 25 Jan 2016 in Holmes Chapel was cancelled.  The LRQA rebooked me onto the Coventry course, this was well handled by Jo-Anne Hindmarsh.  Thank you.  \
Liz was a very a fantastic trainer.\
The course tutor made the topic interesting with many examples.  He moderated the group discussions well and maintained focus on the topics being discussed.\
\
\
would have preferred to received the precourse training material before the course date also, there was a bit of jumping around clear definitions of the differences between the two standards would have been good e.g. this has changed which means \
\
It worked well that there were two trainers - David Lawson and Dave White.  They worked well together drawing on each others knowledge and experiences and it was good to have them sharing the presenting because it kept it fresh.  The group work was very well thought out and really made the information stick.  The breaks were well timed throughout the two days to keep the concentration level up.\
There was so much information to take in and it felt rushed through and sometimes muddled.  I would like to think that the course would have been much more structured, well paced and thorough.  I feel like I am only half prepared to carry out internal audits.  I think the Course Trainer, although lovely and knowledgeable, it really needs someone a little more dynamic.\
There was a lot of information to take in and I don't think it flowed particularly well.   The course trainer was a nice chap but I think it could do with someone a little more dynamic. The hotel was pretty mediocre and soulless in the communal areas.  I know Vic had issues with the room temperatures and we ended up in three different rooms on the three different days.\
The course fulfilled my objectives and there appeared to be very little Hind didn't know about ISO13485 and the MDD.  By happy coincidence, she has done a few of our MDD audits recently!  The exercises were useful to reinforce what we were going through.   There were enough breaks that we didn't get information overload.  \
Excellent course and excellent trainer!\
Training pack and slides didn't always match up. Aside from this both pack and delivery was excellent.\
Keith was easily the best trainer I have ever experienced and made the subject matter enjoyable and easy to understand/remember.  I have attended many training courses over the past few years and this was one of the best, very professionally carried out - well done and thanks!\
Didn't receive pre-course material until the end of my previous course the day before.\
a few of the note pages within the folder have sentences which were only partially written, ie the sentence just stopped.  eg session 2 pg 15 and session 4 page 7.  And they didnt always reflect the slides on the screen\
\
Great course - learned alot Trainer was excellent and very encouraging and experienced.  The pre-course work didn't match what was in the course notes so this didn't get assessed.   \
\
Several times it was difficult to follow the slides in the notebook. It caused confusion not knowing where to write the relevant notes that the trainer was talking about.\
Very well run course. Sarah was very professional and great trainor throughout. Cannot rate her higher.   Believe that the IRCA exam at the end of the course is the only thing that needs to be looked at. Section 4 is too harshly marked, as it is more about the finer details of the wording in the question, with very little to do about assessing your understanding of the ISO 14001 Standard. Also none of us could undertstand why this was a two hour exam, so there was a real push for time, instead of 2 and a half hours.  \
Happy for you to contact me to explain further my scores rather than go into detail here. My best contact number is 07949 026106. Note- I am on annual leave w/c 7 March for one week. \
\
The lecturers\'82\'c4\'f4 subject matter knowledge, experience and teaching abilities were invaluable for making what could have been a very dull course more enjoyable and educational.\
\
\
\
\
Kieth was able to hold my attention throughout the day ( which is not easy )  Kieth was very knowledable & i enjoyed the course\
A short presentation on our own Company expectations / processes for how we have to carry out internal audits would have completed the course nicely.\
\
Pre course notes did not arrive before the course started\
\
Excellent course.   However the venue left much to be desired - off the beaten track and thus difficult to access, poor quality of catering - food, glass water bottles filed with tap water..., dated interior and facilities. \
Some of our attendees did not receive the course joining instructions via email. I had to copy my information to colleagues.  The presentation was very good indeed.  \
\
The reason for the mark-down on standard of delivery is because despite the trainer's impressively vast knowledge of the subject, at times I found his conversational style a bit of an information overload. The course is designed to pack a lot into two days and I think it would benefit from running into a third day to give delegates a bit longer to assimilate the information in the well-produced handouts and apply them in the case studies. I do feel however that the course provides valuable awareness of the new requirements of ISO9001:2015 and how they will need to be applied during future audits.\
Although it was evident that the trainier had plent of subject matter knowledge.  Hi did not follow teh course outline. Seem ill prepared and often there was confusion as to wher ewe wer e in course material.  Curse matrial - no copies availabelof standrad - slide ofert did not match course contenet provided in manual . Exercises were ofern glanced over and not fully completed\
Well presented course. The trainer was very knowledgeable with regards tot he subject and put the course content over very well.  The general atmosphere was good and the location was ideal.\
I think it would have been useful if a few worked examples of the outcomes of the various exercises had been passed to delegates at the course.  It would also have been useful for a copy of the standard especially the Appendix containing all of the controls to be made available on the day.\
\
\
\
\
Inadequate provision of training material - difficult to share documentation in a group of 4/5 Unclear instructions on case studies / course work Was expecting to relate some case study examples to specific clauses within the ISO standard to help assign to real life audit findings Not a full  2 day training course Trainer friendly and polite\
The course was pitched at the right level i.e. experienced auditors.  It is not a course for a novice but will challenge and  benefit any auditor who wants to develop their skills and outlook with the ISO 9001 2015 standard.  It's a good, well located facility that was let down by the following;  It was difficult to locate the correct parking area  The receptionist was eating a bowl of cereal as she greeted Customers.   We were 4 to a table, which was fine for group working and discussion. However, the amount of course material and handouts meant that there was insufficient desk space at times.\
Administration was not brilliant with a number of contradictory emails circulating regarding the change in venue- I had to personally phone up after 3 such emails since the last one suggested that I still needed to pay when I had already done so. Pre course information was very good however only circulated 2 days before the event. As a consequence of this late receipt I was unable to print the pre course reading materials due to other working constraints. Facilities excellent although the lunchtime food quantity was somewhat small for the group size.\
\
\
Felt that 2 days was too long for the course. Having done a numerous amount of lead auditors courses i believe the more experieinced individuals can achieve the content in less time. I appreciate that the course runs at the slowest delegates pace. Strongly suggest a pre course requiste of actually attending a lead auditor course is mandated. I appreciate that this is down to the course arranger but placing indiviudals on courses who have no experience onto a transition course is not in keeping with the course title 'Lead Auditor Transition' or its intent. On a differing note there will be individuals with certificates with the title Lead Auditor on certificates even though they havent been trained!\
\
There was only just enough food for the number of delegates, apart from this the course was excellent\
My lower marks for booking and facilities relate to the confusion about finding the building and on arriving not being sure which way to go into a car park. No signage on the road outside  that I could see and not very clear/noticeable signage on LRQA building. I am not very good at directions and finding places and this made it more difficult. tried to turn left into what looked like an LRQA car park and got stuck before having to reverse and go through the barrier to the main building. Some pre course maps/pictures/instructions of the specifics would help people like me! links to the web site did not take me to maps, and I had to call to ask about car parking.  Lunch was amazing quality but verging on not enough for the group.\
Disappointing that a copy of the ISO9001:2015 standard book was not provided along with the course. \
Only change would be a copy of the standard which would have been good to take away.\
An extremely interesting course and delivered with passion and knowledge, I very much enjoyed this. Was easy to understand despite the radical changes involved. The facilities were adequate although late with coffee on a number of occasions, food was passable. However, a very easy to reach location and comfortable enough rooms for the event.  The extra handouts and additional slides post event were very much appreciated.  One issue arose in that the group (table) had two groups of two and thus getting a discussion started on some of the practicals was a little more difficult than perhaps if there was only one group. This was only one perhaps 50% of the exercises though so it was possible. \
\
\
Course was presented excellently by the trainer. Alot of valuable information gained during the 2 day course.\
Excellent trainer\
\
A very hands on course and full of content.  Tutor put you at ease and encouraged every one to participate in their own way.\
Overall the course was very good and I learnt a lot over the two days. I did find at times the course was somewhat contradictory as in some areas of auditing certain aspects are open to interpretation. this occasionally meant I was unclear but Vic was able to clear up any questions I had. His engaging delivery and approachable nature made it easy to speak to him directly and ask questions when unsure.\
Albeit the course was interesting but the PPT presentation was confusing with the actual comments and the trainer made specific comment giving the impression that they had not seen it before and had no input into its construction.\
\
Course was booked by HR on my behalf\
\
\
The course materials were good. The trainer came across as knowledgeable in the subject matter but I did not feel she was a very good trainer.  We were often confused as to what exactly the task we had been given to complete was.  Despite starting late on the first day, we finished early which I think reflected not covering the course material particularly well.\
The pre course arrangements have been processed much faster. Due to the specific of my organization, it is necessary to receive an advance invoice before transferring the payment. According to the assistant who prepare all the advance paperwork, this time the needed invoice was sent in a very short time after request. It was the smoothest registration from all those done in the past. Also, the pre- course material was send by e-mail as a backup for regular mail. This allowed the participant to start the preparation for the training in time. \
\
Great course, would highly recommend to any business looking to make the transition to ISO9000:2015\
\
\
The training course was in a ridiculous location for commuting in daily- particularly because of the early starts (8.30) and late finishes (18.30). The nearest station to Battersea is Clapham Junction- a good 10/15 minute walk to the venue; and not in a safe location. Very unhappy about the choice of venue. \
- it was a shame there was no discussion / focus on ISO14001:2004 - it was unfortunate not to mention any forms of internal auditing other than process audits as I will be undertaking a lot of system audits in the near future - quite a lot of the material covered in the notes was not discussed. It's useful material to have but if more of it could have been actively taught during the two days that would have been very helpful. \
Still waiting to receive missing handouts - ISO 14001:2008 versus ISO 14001:2015 and -ISO 14001:2015 versus ISO 14001:2008 which we were told would be emailed to us the day after the course.\
\
not allowed to book into the room until PM time \
\
I have attended an internal auditor training course delivered by another training provider some years ago.  I can confirm that the LRQA course was far superior to the other course.\
\
Too many group learning exercises for a new standard and to meet my learning style.\
Course would have benefitted from having more time spent specifically looking at example exam questions, particularly the last section when grading whether a scenario is a non-conformance or requires further information. Also the use of more past papers would have been useful, as only had access to one specimen exam paper.  Facility was not in the most accessible location, with the long days and additional homework it would have been advisable if accomadation at the facility was reccomended if living more than 1 hr travel time door to door.\
\
A bit of a curate's egg - trainer was very knowledgeable but spent a lot of time talking about his business ideas, background etc. Some contradictions between course material and his content. Last session felt rushed. \
I found the course very enjoyable and the pace at which the trainer delivered suited my learning style well. Although we did not strictly follow the agenda set out in the pre-course information, the way the course was delivered ensured that all elements where reviewed. My only negative feedback about the course and delivery would be that on the final day, the exercise did feel a bit rushed as one delegate had wanted to finish earlier for unforeseen circumstances meaning that the final exercise was done by only two members of the group. Other than that, I thought the course was excellent.\
The course was delivered in an enjoyable format and I personally found it very informative.\
\
The room was cold all the time. Even after Liz spoke to the hotel staff it didn't get any warmer. \
Keith demonstrated his knowledge and experience of the subject through wonderful examples and stories. This helped the delegates to understand how to put the skills learned on the course into practice.\
\
\
Great and informative course.  I have founf my retention of specifics good and although got some things wrong during the course -learnt from them\
Venue should provide more than just tea/coffee and water for refreshment breaks, possibly some fruit juice\
\
The trainer was excellent.  Liz provided very good explanations of detailed and potentially confusing points and questions raised by delegates, and offered encouragement and support when needed. The venue is very good - comparatively quiet rooms, and free of the clinical atmosphere of many corporate hotels.\
Some of the text on the slides were a little difficult to read. White text on light blue background tended to lose the impact of what the text was about. Not easy to read when you have bi focal glasses.\
\
Hello, struggled a bit with the  hand outs and to be able to quickly place them in the correct section within the folder.  Myself and another colleague felt the same about this. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
From having very little knowledge on ISO 9001 prior to starting the course I found that the method that Keith used to put the subjet over was enough for me to follow the subject throughout the 2 day course, I have gained an understaining of the 9001 & the future requirment needed in my new role as a SHEF advisor.\
Excellent course thoroughly enjoyed it, only one complaint  the catering was very poor for such a large hotel\
very good course , instructor was spot on\
It would have been much more helpful to understand the hours that the course involved, as despite being local, with the amount of hours and homework, I would have opted to stay at the hotel to maximise my learning. \
\
Joining instructions could do with coming out earlier or information when you book to say they will come a week before. There was a good balance of presentation and interactive work.\
Unique delivery technique which aided me to remember all the vital information on the subject, engaging and fast paced. Overall happy with the experience.\
\
Pre course material supplied had differences from the trainers material.\
\
\
Pre-course training material not received\
I did not receive Pre-course material \
Overall the course was really good. Brilliantly delivered, relevent content and nicely structured. The only minor issue I had was that there was a lot of waiting around on the second day when the role play scenarios took place, but i think this was unavoidable due to the large number of attendees on the course.\
lunch was not good not much choice as for hot meat either pork or pepper couscous which I don't like either.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Brian was very welcoming & accommodating. He had a good ability to recognise individual delegates capabilities and managed to explain things in a clear & concise manner. \
\
\
\
\
The knowledge of the trainer, Dave White, kept me fully engaged for the duration of the course.\
\
The course notes were very brief and didn't offer any significant insight into the new requirements of the standard. I would have liked to have seen far great time spent by LRQA in providing more in-depth guidance for lead auditors that could sit along the new requirements.\
Very good course - meet the needs of me and my team.\
I received my course information about 1 week prior to the course start date.  Before that I had no knowledge of the daily course start and end times.  If I had known I would have made alternative arrangements.  This information should be available at course booking. The food available at lunchtime was adequate but not brilliant - the availability of food at break and during the course was great.\
\
\
\
\
Outstanding.  The quality of the content, of the pace and the knowledge of all the team was awesome.  \
I thought it was so useful having Jo present at the course, she has not only sales experience but experience selling for Pfizer and had great enthusiasm around the role. I found it really inspiring and motivating hearing her top tips and experience. \
Brilliant 5 days. Thank you. Time well invested with a great company, great products and a great group of people. I am really looking forward to inspiring people to flourish in their workplace and lives as an OTD business coach. \
Really great interactive and engaging day. Facilitators did a great job of providing information but also encouraging discussion and allowing time to think.\
Very good training but a lot of informations in only 1 day and half.\
\
\
I am extremely excited to put the information learned into practice.  Lucy was unbelievable and I cannot believe how much I have learned in the last day and a half.\
\
Amazing experience. I love how engaging Lucy was. I learn best by evoking emotions and that was done!  Love the mind mapping as it set memories into my brain. Thank you so much. Feel very supported by having this opportunity.  \
\
Could have easily had the session be longer.  Content was excellent but left me wanting more. \
\
The course is so intense, that for me is necessary to have a pair of two or 3 hours free between the morning and the afternoon off the 3edd day. And recuperate this two hours the two days after. \
The session was really engaging and varied. There was a good mix between practical and theory in the session.   I particularly enjoyed the VUCA activity and could have carried on with it all day! It was also great to have Jo in the room to answer sales specific questions and concerns. She was so enthusiastic! \
An Introduction round would be helpful. Who and why?\
Brilliant 5 days. Thank you. Time well invested with a great company, great products and a great group of people. I am really looking forward to inspiring people to flourish in their workplace and lives as an OTD business coach. \
The level of this workshop was the best I\'82\'c4\'f4ve ever experienced, thank you. I was stretched, challenged and inspired.\
What an incredible week... the training was some of the best I have ever experienced...  We covered a huge amount of content but this was well balanced by all of the different channels in which it was delivered. The OTD team are just amazing and when Andy said that the vision is to have the very best trainers and be the best.. I can say that this is the absolute  the truth! \
Outstanding.  The quality of the content, of the pace and the knowledge of all the team was awesome.  \
Louise, thank you for a fantastic week. You are an absolute legend - so much experience and passion combined is a powerful thing and you rock!  \
Superb week thank you !..... looking forward to working with you all again soon .\
Yet another brilliant day from Sophie (And Jo)! Thank you again.\
Would have liked to do the VUCA again!\
\
Great as always!! Thank you...\
Too short !!!\
\
\
\
\
It was very interesting workshop and I believe I will use some of the tools we learned there.\
\
\
\
\
This was one of the most motivating and challenging training i have had!\
I loved the way that the attention was kept by Chris without any slide or tool. It was so flawless I lost track of time sometimes. Overall One of the best trainigs I had in my career!\
\
I really liked the training and find Chris very inspiring. I missed the last day which I regret, as I would have loved the practice training.\
\
I think that a great workshop can occur when you don\'82\'c4\'f4t sit behind a table at all and that all participants are fully engaged to the process \
The workshop contributed to my knowledge, and I had a very pleasant time.\
\
This was a fantastic experience!! memorable and energizing! \
I thought to find more answers in the manual.\
Fantastic and totally energizing\
The training was really great and inspirational! \
Maybe the course itself could be more differentiated as per experience and skilled\
Pundit very good at driving the room\
.\
Having attended many sales course throughout my career, I tend to measure on the previous course content and delivery.  OTD in my opinion delivered a high value course with relevant content, productive workshops and have improved my skill set and knowledge base to a higher level.  I will definitely apply some, if not all, the learnings obtained from the course and would recommend OTD as a sales training service provider.\
It was good, but a bit long and generic \
I struggle to concentrate in a classroom environment so this form of learning is perhaps not ideal for me personally. Though of course I understand it\'82\'c4\'f4s probably the only  way to deliver it within a large company. \
Good course. Future courses could run in 2 days with some pre reading.\
I understand the need for activity but some areas could seem a little repetitive. A group of varying skills and experience is hard to find a \'82\'c4\'faone size fits all\'82\'c4\'f9 solution however.\
It was good, but a bit long and generic \
\
Punit was polite, understanding and effective in showing different sales techniques. However \
The facilitator was very knowledgeable and adaptable to our company\'82\'c4\'f4s situation.\
\
\
Good though more likely aimed at junior members of staff. \
\
Overall it was very good this time it took the right time and effort. We are not in hurry to finish or finalize any thing . \
\
Was a very good workshop. And its one of the most engaging one i have ever attend \
I am really happy that I have attended training with ODT for third or fourth time  You are always different \
\
I really really appreciate your effort and your energy. I am glad to join this event and really have enjoyed every moment. Thank you very much\
The level of engagement was really great. I liked how professional the facilitator were More videos can be of an addition to the motivation session \
Thank you for the energy\
\
\
\
I liked the enthusiasm and self confidence.  Well done\
\
\
\
\
\
The course could have been a little longer. Really well done. \
\
\
Maybe can be repeted , but with a different tematic\
\
\
\
\
\
I\'82\'c4\'f4m very impressed and learnt a lot from you girls! I\'82\'c4\'f4m going to practice my new skills and put it on the next level ;)\
\
Go Glenn and Joan!\
Great teachers!!\
\
\
The course learnings were very hands-on and interactive. It was a fun way to learn and I\'82\'c4\'f4m excited to implement!!\
I really did not think there could be a way to make facilitating and presenting fun.  Chris completely blew me away.\
His energy and enthusiasm are amazing. Makes the topics fun and interactive. Has a special way of connecting with the audience. \
Great overall course \
\
\
Awesome job keeping us so engaged\
\
\
\
Super job was really engaging Well done considered the mixed audience\
Thank you\
\
It was amazing to see the facilitators enthusiasm. She explained things with a total different perspective. This helps to see things from different angle. This was a great learning experience and will go with me for life.\
Love Jo\'82\'c4\'f4s workshops  Love her energy and that she makes us reflect on our own questions . \
Jos energy was infectious and delivery superb\
Jo was an excellent facilitator. Really enjoyed the course.\
\
Excellent workshop\
\
\
Louise was great . Really encouraging and helpful and really helped to encourage you . I really enjoyed this course and look forward to building on what I have learned today and putting it into use when I get back to the office. \
Absolutely loved the session.  It provides the framework for future use with the session flexing to provide guidance on real life issues \
Excellent course and really useful.\
The 4 imperatives really resonates and it was useful to apply my values to them.  Good to know I should never compromise on my values.\
Fun and engaging.  Would have been good to pull all the strands together at the end.\
it\'82\'c4\'f4d hit the mark again and as usual\
Only attended the one day! Great day full of energy and relevant but delivered in simple understandable way \
\
\
\
Good fun\
\
Really inspiring couple of days, led very well, but made even better by a fully engaged group of people. Lots of relevant ideas learned, but not too much. Thank you. \
\
Great event and focused on learning and development in the right places. \
\
\
\
Fun and educational \
\
the purpose was not clear in the beginning. It was hard to focus since the framework was not really defined and clear to everyone.  It would be better to make clear what the general aim is for this course and how we will achieve it. If you do not, the most of the people are lost with their thoughts.\
Time too short for some exercise, 2 days were packed -> exhausting   Intention is good, interesting food for thought and new approaches  I like the Concept \
Not enough Time for discussions \
\
\
Still not clear what it means for my role and how I can contribute, actually I'm confused more than before we started the workshop\
\
Ich w\uc0\u8730 \'barde mir mehr Feedback bzw. Diskussionsrunden zw. den arbeitenden Teams w\u8730 \'banschen. Warum wer welchen Weg gew\u8730 \'a7hlt hat. Dh nicht nur die Ergebnisse pr\u8730 \'a7sentieren, sondern es von den anderen Gruppen kritisch reflektieren lassen.\
no materials received. basic key account management training. not sure why this was delivered to the whole affiliate. it is very BAU that all functions work together. we should focus much more on hiring the right people in sales, i.e. hiring people with key account management experience who then are in a position to execute that effectively in the business. not occupy the whole affiliate for 2 days with basics.\
it was too much in English, input was very interesting but also confusing\
Very intensive; \
Time Management was bad, \
Zu gro\uc0\u8730 \'fce Gruppen, besser in deutsch und vor allem hat eine einleitende Erl\u8730 \'a7uterung gefehlt, wo der Zusammenhang mit der aktuellen Situation in der Affiliate ist\
Too much sales \
The requirements and involvement for my role are still not all clear\
\
\
Nothing new.\
Too long, too specific\
\
\
\
I liked the unicorns as new animal\
\
Level of hands on interaction was great, as was encouragement to participate\
Karen & Jo you are absolutly amazing seriously I don\'82\'c4\'f2t know what you could have done better \
\
Interesting  Intense  Fun\
\
I felt like the facilitator created a really comfortable environment which eased the nervousness of presenting\
A really good day, I learned a lot. \
Really good, enjoyed it. Would definitely help in the future for presentations. \
Amazing day!!! Presenting is something I always get really nervous for even though I come across as quite a confident person - I\'82\'c4\'f4ve learnt the fear is in my head and the use of the format and A-F I feel going forward presentations/ public speaking isn\'82\'c4\'f4t something I\'82\'c4\'f4m scared of, it\'82\'c4\'f4s actually quite exciting - Lou you are amazing thank you so much !!!!\
\
\
\
I found the workshop extremely helpful, thought provoking and encouraging. I was reminded of skills I had learnt in the past but practicing them again was extremely useful. I also learnt a lot more and it reminded me how useful this kind of training is to keep you sharp, focused and motivated. I have come away with a renewed sense of energy and determination. I feel clearer about my priorities, time management and strategic planning. Thank you! \
What an amazing training!!  I heard people saying - I don't want it to stop, then you know it's making difference in people's life. I came home with a big smile on my face and I haven't been able to remove it yet:) Thank you Chris, Lucy and Louise!! I HOPE I will see you soon again!!\
Punit was energetic and knowledgable and kept the attention of the class. \
With 35 years of working I have been on too many training courses and whilst good I felt it was too long for me\
Punit was great at keeping everyone encouraged and engaged. He was really motivating and made the course. \
Very good course although would have liked two days as opposed to three\
Overall very useful and relevant. Food to brush up on skills and learn new techniques.\
Thoroughly engaging and thought provoking. Punit\'82\'c4\'f4s enthusiasm is infectious!\
Could of been done over two days. Punit was great. I liked that he had working knowledge of what we do. Rather than a more general understand. \
\
Punit was fantastic - really made the course enjoyable and was very engaging \
This course was very engaging and I had several new ideas around how to deliver the course in the most effective way. I also had an opportunity to learn, not only from Liz but also from the rest of my colleagues\
Some of the content could of been more specific to my role. The principles however, I can use.\
Fantastic course learned a lot \
\
\
Really engaging workshop \
Great workshop !!\
\
\
I want to Go on\
Main advantage od this training was a passionate nad energetic presenter. He was Amina reason that this training was a good spent time for me.\
\
\
It was great and very usefull\
\
\
\
One of the best trainings I ever enjoyed.\
We should do it again!!! \
Would like to train more on the GROW\
\
\
\
\
Could be more time efficient\
Wonderful course with loads of energy and lots of fun\
\
Chris is the right person for such trainings  Some thoughts could be to specialize this in the future and emphasize on certain chapters \
This is one of the most valuable coaching courses I\'82\'c4\'f4ve attended. \
\
\
I like pretty much the course. Thanks a lot. \
\
\
\
Felt that overall the content, energy and outcomes was excellent, great to identify the patient\
Very useful day.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Sherly is a very good facilitator, very clear, nice, kidness and engage the forum\
Very happy with the course, Shearly you are de best!! Every time I see you I learn so much! You are an inspiration :)  Karla Herrera  \
\
\
Had so much fun with Louise today and have taken some points of real value away with me.\
This workshop was FANTASTIC! Louise was really energetic and engaging which made the whole day fly by.   The skills we learnt will be really useful for my role and I am looking forward to putting some of the tools I learnt today into practice. \
Louise was an absolutely great facilitator, with great energy! She has inspired me to go and work on my presentation skills and be the best version of myself when presenting. \
Louise was an excellent facilitator and very knowledgeable in her topic\
I thought this course was really great. It was totally relevant to my job and covered a lot of new content and ideas which would be very useful to take back to my role.\
No power point used and continually involved in the workshops by using flip chart and discussions.\
\
\
\
\
\
This was overall a fantastic 3-day training!  Shirley is an extremely experienced, competent and engaging facilitator who knows how to bring out the best in the participants in the room.  In this workshop it was a group of trainers, which I'm sure is sometimes like herding cats - she kept us on track, adapted to our changing needs, and used her vast knowledge of adult learning principles to turn theory into application for us.  She was extremely open to feedback and also a great coach.  Experiencing the learning as delegates and then re-visiting as trainers during the teach-backs is a very effective method.\
I enjoyed this workshop and think the content is great.  The flow was hard to follow on day one at times and I think an overview of the whole model would have been useful as there were members of the group new to selling models.\
\
I would have liked to download everything more to the field. More guidance on how to manage a priority account for the company\
 if We want to work as a real team, I think we should have worked since the first moment with the group we are going to work in the future. I am talking about the dinamic practice at first time in the morning.\
Great training. Topics that were a little more difficult were xplored more fully and during the final day, I felt much more capable of delivering the content\
\
\
I see the inherent value of this training to more inexperienced sales people. I felt it lacked the industry specific fine tuning you would hope to have from a 3 day course, and as such it remained generic throughout the 3 days. For those with more experience this will most likely be covering techniques and concepts that you have come across and trained on several times in your career, and as such constitutes mainly a refresher. Both Punit and Chris are full of energy and unbridled positive attitude, and obviously feel passionate about the subject which is great to see. I can totally see this being a valuable course for those that are newer to sales as 'sales concept' training. The most effective learning came from the group work sharing with colleagues and peers, this allowed our own experience and knowledge to come out and be shared amongst each other. \
\
Mainly a refresher for me. Not convinced that 3 days were required\
Both Chris and Punit are expert presenters with an obvious passion for what they do. I felt they did a fantastic job keeping the energy going which can't have been easy. I can absolutely see the value this course would have to those new to sales concepts and although I personally felt there was little to challenge the way I currently work (which mirrored the concepts being taught) I can certainly see value in the training I have been given.\
Thought Punit was very effective\
Great overall.  Handled negativity in the room well.   Sometimes could have pushed the tempo and pace and focused on the content.   Presentation and interaction  very good.   It\'82\'c4\'f4s very difficult to make it very relative to HO but did a very good job.  Great humour and energy\
Would have enjoyed more practical sales techniques throughout rather than just final day.\
\
\
It is a very good combination of theory and practice. I really appreciated to share own experiences and cases to discuss with the group. Facilitators were quite enthusiastic. \
This is a very beneficial training the level of interaction was ideal \
Really dog training\
Great workshop Great group, ideal group size \
Very very useful!!!!\
Training was very relevant to my role, I am satisfied with the knowledge received during training. It was surprising that there were no ppt slides and the discussion was encouraging. \
\
\
\
\
\
It\'82\'c4\'f4s a good initiative to start our journey through this one Kam project. Very encouraging \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Thank you. I have already started to use the 8-skills training in 'my life'. Meaning not only at work but also in my personal life. What a gift to me!\
Enjoyed having many workshops and sharing back information\
I really enjoyed the workshop! I learn a lot for the OTD coaches as well as from my colleagues. By also from the actors!  The tools are very useful, and eyeopening, I will make it a priority to apply them During my next interactions! \
\
\
\
Great training\
Great course thank you \
Very good workshop overall the day went very quickly. It was good to get the work started on the vision so we can go back with something to engage the broader team on that. There was lots of debate on vision and some confusion I think on Brand vision which is set globally and what a local vision for the brand will look like. It would have been helpful to put the Brand Vision on the screen for people to refresh as people may not all be so clear \
\
\
I like the VUCA exercise, but there was no feedback on it. Good workshop overall so thanks. Jasper is a skilled and polite trainer. Maybe to polite \
IT WAS GREAT TO PARTICIPATE AND GET A FEELING OF THE VISION FOR THE BRANDS, HOWEVER AS IT DID NOT COME TO SET CONCRETE MILESTONES, I COULD NOT TAKE MUCH HOME TO INCORPORATE IN MY OPEX PLANS TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE BRAND TEAM.  \
\
Another great day led by Louise building on what we have already done but shared with a new group and tailored to their needs\
\
\
Super energy and enthusiasm. An absolute pleasure to do this workshop and very enlightening. \
Excellently led by Louise, great energy and some great thought provoking ways to think and work differently \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
It fits very well into our needs right now, in terms of full team alignment since we know that we have 3 tough years ahead of us. Thank you! Sussie Sch\uc0\u8730 \u8706 nbeck\
\
\
\
\
Really good, refreshing due to the fact they was no PowerPoint. \
I can\'82\'c4\'f4t really find a fault with the course - Liz was an amazing tutor who had a very relevant and engaging style of presentation. She balanced fun with the right level of teaching, and the group certainly learned a lot, as well as me personally. I know that with my newer starters, I will use this course and Liz again, and will utilise the knowledge that I gained in my role too. \
Very informative and innovative. Variety\
Liz is brilliant! Very approachable, helpful and particularly passionate about her training. Really interactive and informative. \
Great experience and I learnt a lot of useful new skills that are applicable to my role. \
Second time to hear Liz present and can\'82\'c4\'f4t fault her. So engaging and a pleasure to listen to. Have taken away so many useful tools. Thank you \uc0\u63743 \'fc\'f2\'c5\
I really enjoyed this course and feel I have come away with a lot of information that I will remember due to the way the course was presented, it was a really enjoyable way of learning new skills. Liz was amazing at making it enjoyable and I feel like I will remember everything I have learned over the two days with her.\
Excellent course Liz was enthusiastic and encouraging with a completely different style to previous courses I have attended.\
Really great course, would recommend Liz to anyone looking for an enthusiastic and motivational way to learn\
\
Liz was amazing throughout!  As someone new to sales I found this course extremely helpful. I really have picked up new skills and insights which will definitely be applied in my role.\
\
Het was leerzaam; wel in een korte korte tijd veel info. \
ACE related Workshop is usefull for every role, not only sales. Level of details of the ACE model was fine (even with less background in ACE then Salesforce) \
Op zich goede cursus. Graag had ik veel meer geoefend met de detailaid en op een ander moment ACE weer geoefend. In mijn beleving veel te weinig tijd gehad om met een zeker gevoel met de nieuwe detail-aid op pad te gaan. Ook graag nog de gesprekken medisch inhoudelijk willen toetsen en oefenen.\
Het was heel veel voor 1 dag, mn aan tools en handvatten Marjan is erg druk, kan soms iets te veel zijn voor een hele dag. Haar enthousiasme werkt wel heel goed!\
\
IT was a great experience.  Good job done by Marian.\
\
There aren't enough starts to accurately represent the height of my opinion of Shirley and the course overall. Shirley is a brilliant facilitator with deep insights in human behaviour and learning needs. It was a real privilege to share the course with such inspirational and supportive people and it was great to be able to help shape the final session and materials that will be delivered. The course had a different (better) feel to other coaching courses I have attended and I particularly liked the emphasis on the psychology behind the session content. Lots of breaks and a relaxed atmosphere made for a great experience. Thank you.\
Have been on a number of previous coaching courses but this was different - thoroughly enjoyed it :)\
\
\
Maybe a bit more clarity about how it applies to non standard coaching conversations for those of us without direct reports\
The course seemed a bit long - maybe too much time introducing coaching and getting our buy-in that it is a good thing. The role play example seemed more complex than was needed. An example from our industry would have been better. \
Great course! High energy all the way through \
Course was more geared towards direct coaching but should take into consideration of roles and not all have direct reportees. Would be more useful to have course built around peer to peer conversations or conversations up for those with no direct reports and have more specific examples. Course language should maybe around conversations rather than coaching \
An excellent thought provoking workshop.  I will be using it in next week.  \
\
Really enjoyed having two facilitators, very good energy, and engaging\
\
Good setup\
I missed something when she talkes very fast .... and was in one part of the very Big room..... \
\
I needed more times i the group. \
\
It was worth it. This will make a difference\uc0\u63743 \'fc\'eb\'e7\
\
\
\
\
\
...my english is quite bad, so I did not understand everything...\
Good setup\
\
\
Good with some input, heard a lot before, but always good with a reminder.\
\
\
\
\
Perhaps another/copresenter cos listening 1,5days with 1 person is guite heavy set for facilitator and audience. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very good!\
\
\
\
\
\
\
I thought the section on organisational awareness was the least useful topic that we have covered so far. The most valuable part of the workshop is being able to chat opening with Sophie and hear/learn from all of her experiences. \
As with all of the OTD sessions run by Sophie, the course was both engaging and informative. There was a great balance between practical tasks and theory.   The content was relevant for the role and the day gave us a great chance to reflect on the learnings and successes we have had from the year so far. \
\
Maybe the best work shop for me for meny years. Thx to Jo & Glenn\
Another great course with Sophie! We didn't spend much time on influencing techniques/ scenarios which I think would've been helpful.\
\
One day for sure a bit short and it would be great to view and elaborate more on the motivational aspects and techniques from the procurement community to better prepared to react on their techniques.\
Very good inputs for any negotiation meeting....\
\
Nice time management\
Excellent overall. One day is probably just right, two days would be more than perfect to digest all info.\
\
good start, we MUST continue with exercising and diving deeper, deploying and repeat trainnig and feedback\
\
\
Good job \
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent course  Eye opener Very refreshing\
The case we were discussing, was not exactly in a relation with our Daily work. We do not have doctors, who want to train GPS and want just to work operations.\
Probably we needed half day more\
Loved the workshops and interaction. It was difficult in front of peers but there feedback means a lot.\
Really useful and will definitely make a difference to the work I do.   Especially around structure and using the model. \
Facilitators were excellent and had stromg energy.\
Positive helpful and interesting course full of useful content which can easily be put into use in any context\
Great course took a lot I can take into presentations and training \
Jo and Lou are a great team. High energy and fun, and always applicable to coaching best practices!\
Fantastic workshop with real tools I will use in presenting.\
Interesting structure of course which made me follow the course easily and understand the techniques better\
\
Absolutely brilliant course, given me real confidence in presenting and the whole course was a lot of fun and really informative. \
Great course that was fun as well as a great opportunity to learn - lots to take away and work on\
Awesome course!  Feeling much more confident \
Great course, Liz and Chris are excellent facilitators. Content was great. Maybe an additional half day to prepare a longer more comprehensive presentation for final delivery.\
It was brilliant. Thank you so much\
Absolutely fantastic course! So useful and relevant to my working.... and personal life! 100% recommend and would actually love to do it again!\
Full marks all round. Brilliant content and opportunities for learning and discussion. The facilitators were excellent and full of energy and enthusiasm!\
2 days is a big time commitment, 1 should suffice\
Amazing course, loved it! \
\
Really enjoyed the course and feel comfortable to use this in my role with peers as well as subordinates \
\
Fantastic! Can\'82\'c4\'f4t wait to use my new skills \
\
\
\
\
\
Useful course\
It was perfect!\
Balance between practise and presentation\
More diversitide the steps\
\
\
I would recommend for all people managers not only sales mngrs\
Nice excerises videos to keep the motivation.  Role plays under supervision of facilitator to get feedback from from expert.\
\
\
What a pleasure to work with two professionals like Jo and Louise. They both brought energy and enthusiasm to the meeting which meant it was both impactful and fun. A great experience for us all. Thank you. \
\
\
\
\
Nice workshop overall \
Glenn was a very professional and skillfull facilitator\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Glyn is very good facilitator \
\
\
\
This was quite possibly the best training course I have ever been on. The facilitators were awesome... engaged, knowledgeable and fun . The materials support the learning and I can\'82\'c4\'f4t wait to use my new skills.\
One of the best courses I have been on for a long time. Jo and Louise were engaging and inspirational\
Although I don\'82\'c4\'f4t have any direct reports I take this as learning opportunity for career progression and ca use the skills in many situations I face in my current Job.\
Although it\'82\'c4\'f4s uncomfortable at first, it\'82\'c4\'f4s really good to practice coaching and recording yourself and then watching it back after going through some of the theory\
I\'82\'c4\'f4ve learned so much. Now to put into practice!!!\
\
\
Course was well presented and Jo was very encouraging and enthusiastic\
Jo was wonderful. Having been on many sales programs before, it was a pleasant surprise to feel like I actually benefitted from this particular one. \
\
As always more time to discuss in depth. More focus needed on the needs of market access customers.\
Really enjoyed day. Was useful and pertinent to role\
Really appreciate glen communicating the need to add value to our calls when we ask for \'82\'c4\'f2what the hcp wants\'82\'c4\'f4 in our objectives. Shows that we care and that we are aiming at being a partner of choice. We cannot always be about our objectives and glen reinforced this. \
Glenn was great. Always very engaging and thought provoking \
As always more time to discuss in depth. More focus needed on the needs of market access customers.\
As always more time to discuss in depth. More focus needed on the needs of market access customers.\
Thought provoking. \
Great day many thanks\
Very useful, a valuable reminder. Thank you.\
Excellent day. Only issue is the time of the day after an early start \
Thought provoking course that made me rethink my call process \
\
Facilitator was excellent! \
Excellent course  \
Jo is an excellent presenter, enjoyed her energy and enthusiasm.\
\
Jo was very energetic and managed the sessions extremely well\
There was a lot of new info in terms of planning golden arrows etc and at this stage of the year, there is not a lot of time to dedicate to that. This is not a fault of the planner or course, rather a reality for this time of year. Therefore concerned that will not implement course learnings till next year. \
Jo's enthusiasm and explanation of the course needs a score of 6 out of 5! Unbelievable facilitator. \
Jo was an excellent presenter\
The course was so well delivered the trainer full of energy - so motivational. The content was thought provoking will be useful to my current role. Inspired curiosity.\
You can not ignore Jo\'82\'c4\'f4s energy and enthusiasm!! Course content is practical and I can use it with ease. with There were definite learnings and with small tweaks, it will definitely enhance my everyday selling and ultimately my business. \
Excellent course presented in an excited informative manner.\
Jo Long is an exceptional presenter with lots of knowledge.\
\
I have been privileged to have received Coaching training before, this course due to the facilitator was really next level. The tools she used is stuck in my mind forever :-) - visualization, I feel far better equipped for my role as a coach. \
It was good to have practical sessions were we were able to roll play real life situations rather than only a 'make belief' scenario as myself and the other sales manager knows each others team members very well\
\
Pleasant to attend\
Wonderful experince!\
Jo Long is an excellent facilitator!\
Good to have practised the skills amongst each other as we all encounter similar situations \
Training made fun and effective\
Useful exercises, knowledgable and adaptable facilitator - staff all motivated - Excellent\
Jo Long conducted the course with such enthusiasm. I am happy to implement the most important course  aspects into my work.\
Really found the workshop thought provoking. It challenged my Beliefs and attitude, and has made me thinking differently. \
Very insightful \
Very insightful course. My second time doing this but this time it was done with my team - people I interact with most\
Jo Long was a phenomenal facilitator! We learned a lot and had such a great time.\
\
I would like attend it once again to compere how my colours have changed.\
Very useful information \
\
\
thank you \uc0\u63743 \'fc\'f4\'c7\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Fantastic!!  This was a very inspiring session which was extremely relevant to the current day/age/generation of working life.  Great presenters, and very humourous/interactive.  Would definitely love to do this session again. \
A few things which made me think. Such as visualisation, in order to change the benchmark \
Very engaging and need to take in to work life \
\
\
Really enjoyed the training \
\
\
Thank you :)\
Regurgitated content delivered in an over the top manner that was alienating a large potion of the audience. The girls leading the breakout groups were better and more emotionally aware of their impact and engagement on the group. Mediocre delivery of limited concepts we have had delivered more effectively and with more impact by our internal training team.\
Amazing, the energy in the room was electric! \
\
Excellent. \
Really engaging and innovative \
\
\
Both Jo and Karen were really amazing, loads of energy and patience . they are completely natural and we loved both of them .  Islam\
\
\
Amazing workshop, learnt a lot in a really active way. I would highly recommend!\
What inspriring training  and more importantly inspiring presenters!!! I didn\'82\'c4\'f4t know it was possible for facilitators to be so amazing continuously, and at each moment.  I\'82\'c4\'f4m in awe. Thanks for all your help Karen and Jo!!!!!!!! Really grateful!! \
Karen and Jo were amazing, bringing great energy every day to the course, making the learning engaging and fun.\
Karen and Jo were so fantastic all week! They had such great energy, making PST fun rather than boring! \
Karen and Jo were literally incredible. Fully engaging, massive amount of energy that everybody bounced off. Couldn\'82\'c4\'f4t have asked for it to be delivered in a better, more engaging, thoughtful way. Bravo!!\
They were so enthusiastic and really helped me enjoy learning process. Can't recommend them highly enough. \
Genuinely the best training course I've ever been involved in\
Amazing workshop and unique way of learning. Very interactive and impactful and the best facilitators kept it engaging throughout.\
good (old) known topic was trained with a new approach. The Enthusiasm & Energy was more than 5 stars!!  Great Job!!\
\
\
Absolutely great - high level of input, enthusiasm, energy, skill level of the trainer could not be better. Thank you so much Shirley.\
Could use more time to work on \'82\'c4\'faown cases\'82\'c4\'f9 to be directly implemented at home \
\
Perfect to get the tools that supports me to be a better coach. \
I would recommend that all leaders at LEO do this course \
\
Great course with plenty of opportunities to practice skills\
Good workshop, familiar with some of the content but also learnt new things and served as a good refresher. Nice environment and course participants, dinner together was good for networking.\
It was a very interesting two day Training. I regard to the time, I learned a lot. Seems to be easier to learn all this with more time in between. But I feel confortable enough to start with. Thank you very much! \
Simply: a great training!\
\
Great workshop, really engaging facilitator! Thanks!\
Truly amazing workshop - probably the best I have ever attended in my career. Relevant, engaging, thought provoking are just a few words that come to mind. Looking forward to implementing this model with my team and seeing our performance and results reach new heights. \
\
Loved how each workshop finished with a \'82\'c4\'faSo what\'82\'c4\'f9 as it really brings the value of what we are learning into our business and practice \
Loved the engaging facilitator.  Loved the anecdotes to bring it home.\
Chris\'82\'c4\'f4s energy was infectious. He is very inclusive as a Facilitator. Makes everyone feels great. \
\
\
Fantastic experience.  One of the best coaching sessions I have ever attended!\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent workshop, great delivery and full of energy\
Would be good to look at campaigns outside of Astellas/pharma from the point of view of customer engagement and then link back to what we are trying to achieve \
Caroline was great\
\
Great trainer with really big knowledge and able to deliver this in understandable way as well as able to keep atmosphere very friendly.\
Very interesting and enjoyable, I learned a lot.\
I felt this was a well executed workshop and I got a lot from the two days. Glenn was very enthuastic and motivating. \
Not all facilitators are as great in encouraging and clarity, knowledge and experience. The facilitator in my group did not guide the group well and no clear instructions. Otherwise, great workshop. Timing a bit too long. \
Some simple content that everyone knows already can be shorten and discussed faster \
\
Overall quality was good One more thing is varience of facilitators\'82\'c4\'f4 competency\
\
Nice workshop and easy to implemented\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Day 2 followed on naturally and brought together all the learnings from day1  Felt I will visit my first call with new detail with confidence\
From the start Lucy made the environment very open and honest. I felt like she was genuinely interested in seeing us succeed. Great job!!\
\
Excellent !\
Really enjoyed the course. Realized that I need a coach to be able to Inspire my Team and Coach better. Glad I\'82\'c4\'f4ll be able to follow up regularly with Lucy to work on key areas going forward. Workshops, Videos, activities, team building etc included in the course made it very beneficial and Fun\
Excellent course well delivered great experience \
Great useful course\
Simply brilliant! (As always)\
Wonderful workshop!!! One of the best \
I have undertaken many selling courses and did not anticipate this one to be very different.  However, I was pleasantly surprised by the relevance of the content and the enthusiasm of the facilitators.  Both Glenn and Jo did a great job of keeping the course upbeat and interesting. The absence of PowerPoint was refreshing and the way in which the course was facilitated demonstrated the facilitators extensive knowledge of sales training and psychology theories.\
\
Excellent course Unlike other selling skills course ...very interactive and relevant to role. Both facilitators were enthusiastic with lots of very useful tips. \
The facilitator was fantastic \'82\'f9\'a7\'d4\uc0\u8719 \'e8\'82\'f9\'a7\'d4\u8719 \'e8\'82\'f9\'a7\'d4\u8719 \'e8\'82\'f9\'a7\'d4\u8719 \'e8\
\
Very good planned and surprising training\
High energetic and inspiring, Brought us from not understanding and sceptical thoughts to knowing, believing, self confidence and laughing. I liked the emotions\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
could be a bit shorter\
\
Excellent 2 days\
Great 2 days thank you\
\
A positive experience was had during this workshop, facilitor was very knowledgeable and enthusatic and I took some new ways of working from the day.\
GREAT LEARNING EXPERIENCE \
\
\
\
Jo was brilliant as the facilitator. Would have liked a deeper dive into the 3 key topics.\
Great workshop. Very interesting and useful.\
\
The new videos to illustrate key concepts are very good.\
Excellent workshop , looking forward to follow up sessions.\
An excellent workshop. Jo's energy and enthusiasm is infectious. Content was thought provoking, I could visualise exactly where I would put the content to good use\
\
\
\
\
Very good, simple and easy to understand tools in order for the team to see in what situation it is and show a path to improve. \
It was a hard session, was really difficult for my team at some moments of the 2 days but Louise help us to do it!\
Is amazing how the details from the interviews was putting into the presentation and the workshop materials.  Have a high impact the engagement from the facilitator cause make and genuine commitment into the team. \
\
These past days have been very enriching. Louise really caught everyone\'82\'c4\'f4s attention and kept good energy within the team. \
Lou\'82\'c4\'f4s energy was the key for this two days \
Louise!! Thanks for all your support, it was a great workshop and I know it\'82\'c4\'f4s going to help me lots!!  Gus \
We should have this course adapted to all our different levels including In-Store Sales Staff\
I think the workshop is great for lower levels not generally exposed to present. I believe it would be of great benefit to have managers and below take it and their supervisors just come to the presentations to kind of recap.\
Great workshop.   We were provided with great tools and techniques that are essential to us in order to perform well. Louise was able to maintain a very positive, engaging and friendly environment!   Thank you!!\
The workshop was very enlightening, give us the opportunity to learn and put practice what we learn. Full recommended.  I liked that is was for a small group so the facilitator was able to engage with each one of us.\
Really enjoyed this course and the fact that we were able to immediately put in practice what we were learning was ideal. Need part 2\
Everything great!!\
Excellent workshop with a very useful content \
\
It was an amazing experience. Facilitator was great. Great energy\
\
Change the political videos :)\
This course exceeded all expectations. Chris is a fantastic teacher. Great combination of information, tips and recommendations. Will definitely be applied to daily work life. \
Chris\'82\'c4\'f4 energy is contagious!  The materials very applicable to our job\
\
Loved the content and how the course was organized.  \
Loved the content and how the course was organized.  \
Loved the content and how the course was organized.  \
This is a great course, very practical. Thank you\
\
\
\
Course was adapted to circumstances due to the non availability of the edetail. Practical exercises were added value. Lot of attention to the Articulate a Purpose, as requested \
\
\
\
\
Good presentation and appreciated.\
\
Congratulations for the course! The atmosphere that was created to have fun learning was wonderful, I will use without a doubt some of the learnings\
need more practice\
Fantastic the practices. I remember all 'tricks' learnt during the practices and I have already used them! \
\
It was a good workshop, very interesting with two very good speakers\
\
Many many thanks Louise and Andy\
It went excellent . The content was New for me and interesting also challenging us to think out of the comfort zone.\
Thank you for the two days\
Trouble:)\
Really energitic presenter specially lwis inspiring & nice one\
ODT is always different  Team is great and run the Tarining by different way  Louise is super presenter . I have learnt a lot from ppt skills.\
Less risky Exercise \uc0\u63743 \'fc\'f2\'c4\
\
\
\
was extremely valuable to be in a small group \
\
Incredibly thought provoking! Love it all. Cannot wait to implement this. \
Online training: so questions about interaction etc.. are a bit unfair. Glenn did her best in the environment.  This said: I still give a low score, because if one of the purposes of this workshop  was to share more interactive / adult learning styles - which requires practicing interaction... (you see where I am going with this..) . We should not skimp on face-to-face training when it's needed :o)  I also think Glenn's knowledge was 'held back' by the circumstances and different experience levels - right at the end she answered a difficult question on exploring HCP beliefs, and started an example that uses double loop coaching (GROW) - great answer, but unfortunately beyond the scope of this training.   Red/Blue game: I appreciate Glenn's response when I challenged using this game, and I really mean that there are simpler ice-breakers that demonstrate a lack of understanding / communication. Red/Blue is really good for introducing negotiation training, but as MSL's are we really negotiating with HCP's? or withholding information with internal colleagues? I hope not.. CPR Video: the message may also be perceived as 'doing the minimum gets us by'. I agree that just compression might save more - because more people do the same - but that's exactly our problem at Bayer. We do the same (and in fact we are still catching up to the mainstream..!) We need to differentiate, and if that means ventilation / mouth-mouth and CPR is the difference - then we want to be those people at Bayer!   \
\
\
Glenn,  please try to look more into the camera  not on the side...\
\
Based on the fact that OTD is also still new to the online delivery of such a workshop, you really did a fantastic job. Glenn was very present and created a positive atmosphere.\
Glenn did an amazing job of making the PFCI modules come alive over Zoom - she kept the energy flowing and the examples were very useful. \
Overall, it's a good learning process. The idea to get this training virtually is also a good one. b\
I real enjoyed the workshop! I learned a lot and I think the tools are very useful for scientific exchange with HCPs. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
A good thing to continue the cooperation with OTD\
Very pleasant way of training. \
\
Fijne inter-actieve training \
\
\
Good challenges\
Very thought provoking and engaging meeting, providing reminders and new things to try.\
Great \'82\'c4\'f2facilitator\'82\'c4\'f4 not \'82\'c4\'f2presenter\'82\'c4\'f4!! Lots of energy and enthusiasm.  Made me look at what I do now and how I will move forward having gained an insight into today\'82\'c4\'f4s learnings. \
I\'82\'c4\'f4ve been on a lot of courses and this one was more relevant to our job \
Highly enjoyable and relevant meeting. Will 100% utilise some marginal gains to improve my performance and make increase my ability to deliver. \
Very useful and relevant to role, enthusiastic facilitator.\
Lovely style, engaging and good balance between broadcaster, actor and comedienne.\
Glen is awesome genuinely learn from her every time I see her \
\
Amazing presenters, thought provoking \
Nice course, a little more theory in certain arguments would be useful\
1,overall it's really a useful and coulorful training for PFCI coaching. and the ZOOM techonology can bring us a more efficent and fresh training experience. 2. please consider to share the learining agenda, workbook or other materials earlier so the trainees could prepare for the courses more adequately. 3. i would like to propose involve Chinese discussion/roplay in China trainees, which will be more practical and useful in future work.\
I really enjoyed the training sessions with Sophie. She was friendly, engaging and supportive.   I liked the balance between the practical and theory aspects of the training session. I learnt a lot about myself and the way I work, which was something I had not considered before the training session.   The content will be extremely useful in my role in the future \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Sophie was a great facilitator, she made us all feel comfortable and set an open and friendly environment for us. I learnt a lot during the workshop and was also pushed outside of my comfort zone, which was daunting but yet enjoyable.\
\
\
More time is needed in order to implement the exercises. \
\
Bigger room woul be needed and less people in the room\
\
\
\
\
\
I think more time is needed and with a smaller group. I felt a bit rushed and got lost sometimes. However, I believe overall it was very useful.\
It was perfect \
Good idea of providing one sales format for all affiliates.\
The first day was really long. \
We have very good coach Hynek Glos! We have Czech coach and it is very good for ACE. \
\
\
\
\
There are some topic which are new and we need more time to buyin. No like plastic from China :))\
\
\
\
\
I want to use it immediately\uc0\u63743 \'fc\'f2\'e4\
\
A good introduction and enough to be able to run the course in own country\
\
No comments\
To fast went thru whole training. More practical product examples\
\
Great training, with LOTS of nuggets.\
An excellent balance of information shared and time for discussion. Sophie created a great relaxed atmosphere which encouraged honesty and an open mindset within the group.\
All aspects of the course were brilliant and Sophie was amazing\
The small booklet 'coaching skills' with the 'say instead' suggestions and the hot tips really is very helpful. \
 I have participated also the face-to-face training in Jan, and I remember the length is 1. 5 days. Here are some comments, and some come from the comparison with  the F2F one.  A. Logistics/technical a. the workbook arrived in our office on the second day of our training, should arrive earlier, and pre-reading time should be left. the efficiency will be much more improved. so are some of the videos, especially the 8-skills first video, it is difficult to memorize and locate immediately where the 8 steps are. Time should be left for the starters. b. a pre-call e.g. 5 minutes can be arranged and mandated before to ensure the connection and the camera for future training c. if some trainees come from the same office, more flexible solutions should be offered, f2f and web based workshop shall be combined and will be more efficient, e.g. we had 3 colleagues from beijing office this time, and we had the advantage of f2f interation, but has not been used.  B. the content a.  was thought provoking to ensure the importance and the purpose of coaching, while in my opinion, the importance is obvious, more time can be spent on the behaviors, the good and non-good examples, those are the things we can simply start with in our early coaching b. regarding the reason while coaching may fail, some pictures are very thoughtful, and those practical tips can be better summarized as tools? I can't quite recall some of the reasons even now, and can't find the answers in the workbook. c. the self videotaping sessions are good in f2f session, don't know how to integrate it in virtual training  C. the benchmark test it would be much better if the benchmark can be run in our native launguage, the benchmark tests tell the same thing(i had 3 tests so far, 2 in Chinese, 1 in English)  D. the interaction not all colleague joined all of the modules, think about why and how it can be improved. \
Overall, very valuable experience & was positively surprised how well things went via web application!\
It is important to dedicate time exclusively to the course. So when the course is online is not very posible to be focus only on this  \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The content was excellent, the facilitator created a very relaxed environment. Interestingly is that I felt we were all in the same room. I learned a lot and am willing to put it in practice,\
I thought this course was excellent! I have already put to use some of the tools from this course to frame up discussions with key stakeholders for one of my projects. \
I did not have sufficient time to complete this feedback yesterday and wanted to put some real thought into my comments rather than being rushed.\
The best training workshop I have ever attended! Loved the format, nonstop engagement and excitement for what would come next. Tools and content are applicable to both technical and manager roles. \
Excellent presentation skills. Loved the lack of slides and high level of engagement.\
This was amazing! Very engaging and thought provoking. Great energy! \
\
Learned great tools for influencing \
Recommendation for future invites: no skirts/dresses :)\
\
\
May need two full days\
\
\
The course was like nothing else I have taken. Completely engaging and fun. Very worth the time. \
\
Great thought-provoking activities, fun and engaging\
Thank you to Marian for this very professional and enthusiastic training course \
very usefull, given with enthuosiasm\
\
\
\
Excellent workshop, helped me consider my presenting style and gave useful tips for how to engage the audience.\
Excelent training to improve and change the mindset the sales team.\
\
Take more time to put on practice the new concepts with real customers or examples\
\
Interesting initiative with good content and excellent trainer. Chris really made a difference with his people skills, knowledge and enthusiasm. Cheers\
Excelente todo\
As a TTT training, this was a very productive and fruitful training and coupled with Alison's charm, positive energy and enthusiasm it turned out to be a lot of fun, as well.\
\
\
Very inspireing \
\
learning useful stuff by having fun is by far the best way. Chris for president! Simply the best!\
Great energetic course. Gave inspiration to think about our mentality and how we limit ourselves.\
More reflection time to bring it closer to our personal work\
Very inspirational!  I thought that it maybe was too much practice. But perhaps it is not optimal too have more theory?\
Day 1 was a bit \'82\'c4\'f2slow\'82\'c4\'f4 in terms of progress and I would like to have progressed faster to better time for reflection and practise. Apart from that, a great course which was thought provoking.\
\
Just awsome What!!!\
Chris is a highly energetic and energizing person who brings over the message in a no nonsense easy to follow fashion. Regarding the material, it was quite considerable and a lot to take in, on the other hand as I don\'82\'c4\'f4t work in sales and haven\'82\'c4\'f4t been exposed to similar psychological models before, it may take me a bit longer to digest everything. It was a very comprehensive and well delivered module\
Could have used some more time to reflect and practise\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Would love a little bit more practice with the \'82\'c4\'f9challenge belief\'82\'c4\'f9- questions.   Love the \'82\'c4\'f9death by PowerPoint\'82\'c4\'f9 mindset and use of other presentation tactics instead.\
\
\
\
Very good!\
\
\
OTD does the best workshops! Very inspiring\
Thoroughly enjoyed today, being able to challenge and feedback to each other in a non work environment. It was fun, engaging and a great start to our leadership development journey, I came away really feeling part of a great team \uc0\u63743 \'fc\'f2\'c4\
I very much enjoyed the content, and deepening my understanding of the rest of the team and relationships.  Equally I found some elements to consider on my style and impact valuable \
\
\
Very useful for our team who are so new and really helped me to focus on how best to work with my colleagues and utilise their strengths\
Great course... thank you! Next step is implementation! \
\
\
Great program and pace well designed and delivered. Thank you \
Enjoyed the session. The afternoon was more valuable with concrete action, albeit too short but had to re-set the scene.  Lucy was a very good facilitator with some strong personalities in the room and manage to get everyone active and involved.  \
Just needed a little more time to get into a bit more detail on specific actions. But would not want to take away from theory since it is a valuable part of the day.\
Great course with a lot of lightbulb moments for me.\
Fantastic thought provoking course that has enabled me to grow as a manager\
\
Thoroughly enjoyed! Totally thought provoking\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Andrew is energetic and engaging. He makes the workshop environment relaxed and safe.\
\
\
Very interactive training.  Not at all boring.\
\
Very engaging and thought provoking. Sometimes you leave a training energized but lack an implementation plan. This training provided simple steps that I can begin enacting now\
Chris was very engaging and had great energy.  He had a great mix of presenting vs. audience engagement and activity.\
\
Excellent course, provided me specific tools, actions, mindsets i can immediately apply to new role as manager\
Excellent as always. This will help me become better at job.\
Chris was great very high energy and kept me engaged, attentive and learning something new.\
\
Chris consistently delivers an effective training course.\
Nicely done!  Good energy level.  Great engagement.\
\
I would like to see a digital workbook that I could write on with my iPad.\
Chris was very engaging and energetic!\
High energy and very engaging.  Great refresher to polish our skills\
High energy and great topic that was relevant to my role as a DBM\
\
Chris continues to be extremely motivational.  Very good content.  Liked opportunity to role play.\
\
\
\
\
So easy to learn when it is engaging and fun\
\
too less time for practice too less help to classificate a important insight\
\
\
\
we could have spent a little bit longer on analysing our graphs (the ones we got based on our questionnaire answers) \
Sophie always reads the room and knows when to speed up, slow down, or adapt to the environment she's in. I always enjoy Sophie's workshops and like that she provides resources to look back on. The Workshops are always varied and memorable. Thanks Sophie. \
It was given not enough time for the practical exercises. This hampered the learning process.\
\
\
Felt lost, since I did not know, where this was leading --> no agenda in beginning. Time slots for work with flip chart too short in such big groups. Coach was motivated and friendly but seemed insecure. Level too low for people with experience. \
the execution of a practical exercise was too long, several short exercises would be better      \
\
Really useful and loved the structure to keep people engaged and learning. I took a lot from this training \
Overall learning from program is memorable, really  enjoyed all the activity driven learning .Using creativity to ensure learning is observed throughout the learning. Self realization by reviewing my video has helped me to uncover my  need of asking right Goal questionsa.\
Overall learning from program is memorable, really  enjoyed all the activity driven learning .Using creativity to ensure learning is observed throughout the learning. Self realization by reviewing my video has helped me to uncover my  need of asking right Goal questionsa.\
I liked the Slidesless approach, cultural mix and training print material extremely. \
\
It is a fantastic tool for Managers as the role has typically not been that of a COACH in the truest sense of the word. Coaching comes naturally to some but needs to be fostered in everyone even those it comes naturally to. I see this course as being a great way to implant that thought into the minds of our leaders in a fun and non judgmental  manner.\
Love the methodology used. Experiencing the joys and encouragement that comes with learning through success and failures will linger for months to come.\
\
Great job y\'82\'c4\'f4all , \
Laila, Chris, and Adam did an incredible job developing and facilitating this new course. \
Leila and Chris are great trainers, amazing energy thought provoking content \
\
Day two was way too long , can be shortened by half a day \
I thought the Secondary Sales School training was good in the sense that it was more introspective into how we deal with our OD\'82\'c4\'f4s.  It\'82\'c4\'f4s important to understand not to just be a peddler of wares, but need to be understanding of our customers drive and passion for their business.\
\
High energy really elevated our engagement in the subject matter.  Great workshop!\
\
Chris was AMAZING! Him in combination with Laila and Adam was fantastic. He kept everyone engaged.  Had us thinking outside the box. Everything really hit home and I only rated the length of the workshop a 3 because I would have loved to have him around us longer. Very hands on and I could not say enough about how much we enjoyed this training.  I can\'82\'c4\'f4t wait to take it out into the field with me. \
\
very relevant and well-organized\
\
In what must have been the hottest week of the year Lou, Ali and Becky were able to sense energy levels and adopt focus and energy appropriately and not just let the agenda drive the session.\
Great experience overall!!!!  \
It was really different workshop. The best, the facilitador. She help us to learn a lot and fell us really confortable.\
As a training programme for a new associate to OTD the programme was fantastic. The energy and engagement from Lou, Ali & Becky was fantastic! The support from the rest of the team, Jess, Lou & James made the week flow. Having experienced the ITP I can see the quality OTD deliver to their clients and can\'82\'c4\'f4t eaot to be a part of the projects. In a week I have developed and grown as a person and the feedback has been invaluable too. It\'82\'c4\'f4s been a privilege to have been part of the start of a new journey with OTD. LURVE IT! \
One of the best balanced, energetic and fun workshops I\'82\'c4\'f4ve attended! Really well thought out and executed.\
Just amazing! At all levels.\
Loved every minute with likeminded smart people.  Xxx\
I personally loved the training. Finally a course with practice and not only theory. Thanks. \
\
Very motivating facilitator and very goog attitude to transmit the message\
\
This was over my expectations  And really add value for me\
Amazing energy from Karen and Jo. They made the week interesting and fun and I learned things I didn\'82\'c4\'f4t think were even possible.\
Creat training Gret\'83\'d6 trainers\
I feel so much more confident after this week and know a lot more! \
\
Great training!!! Small Improvement suggestion: The scenario of the role play was not clear enough, not same understanding for everyone. Also the live role play during the training day was not optimum, difficult to play as a team. Not clear instructions upfront who will play.\
\
Another half a day would have been great ! Materials on the thought stuff, could have been more detailed towards the specific things we talked about. \
\
\
energy of the coach made the difference\
\
\
\
\
\
\
There was a disconnect between the objectives and communications between the moderators and facilitators. we were being told different things by different parties, and as a result don't think everyone got the full picture during the workshop process.\
\
\
I loved how we tried exercises on first day and then had this combined with a theroretical framework and further practice opportunities. I really felt that the lessons will be better embedded. Had quite a few moments of epiphany. Chris has a great skill and is very easy to relate to. \
Love the training, best training i,v got ever\
\
Great training\
\
the role playing was good, because it showed how difficult it is to understand the aims of the physician and also how important it is to get to know his interests to generate insights  there was too less time and the trainers always interrupted in between so it was difficult to concentrate on the single Task. For this Kind of Training you Need time and space for thinking and trying new things.\
Some useful input, but less time for discussion. Role play was not helpful and unrealistic for MSL setting.\
It\'82\'c4\'f4s shown why I get along more with some and not all and also not knowing my new manager personally, this session has given me an understanding on how she likes to communicate which is important to me. \
Would thoroughly recommend this has given me as a manager some real insights into my team and will allow me to adapt accordingly. Very thought provoking.\
\
Fantastic course, great length, good chance to work within the team on our strengths and weaknesses \
\
\
\
Workshop time was too short!!! we had only three our!\
\
Time was not enough. To be honest: the workshop did not really get to the point 'generating insights'. Therefore the ranking scores. It was a useful workshop but not addressing its topic deep enough.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Fantastic training!!!! Thank you Chris and Andrew\
\
\
It was very inspiring. Love Your energy and training\
Energy of two guys is great ! \
\
\
\
I love the mix with videos especially linking back to the point - that makes it a lot more easily to follow and keep up\
Louise is a real entertaining person full of energy and with very high professional skills. She knows what she is talking about!! Great to receive that training from her!!\
Fab facilitator. Loved the mix of materials, excercises and hands on approach.  Real top quality training which has massivlily enhanced my thinking around Coaching \
Excellent course delivered energetically and professionally by Louise. Perfectly relevant content and good strategies and skills that I can use in the field with my team. \
\
\
more time would be needed to complete that workshop and if it is done in such a short time frame, it should have focused on only 1 practical thing with more time to analyze and discuss it\
the roleplay was was great but the other things were a waste of time\
to many topics for 3 hours; not enough time to reflect\
\
\
\
Fantastic content well delivered\
Great workshop but I would like to have had more hands on training since I have an easier time taking in new information when I get to do it in real life.\
It was very intreactive.  It allows to give and review tools to be more competitive  during the  coaching\
It eas an excellent course for remind me my daily practice\
\
\
\
Really happy with the course Spot on in line with day to day needs Upbeat engaging and Chris always creates great atmosphere\
Enjoyable, interactive and inspiring day, good balance of listening and doing\
Great and relevant as always.  Thank you \uc0\u63743 \'fc\'f2\'c5\
Very enjoyable. Made me confront my own beliefs...\
\
It would be beneficial for the coach themselves to experience the interactions they receive from our customers to assist with relating to our experiences in store\
Fantastic. Enjoyed all of it and looking forward to putting it into practice!\
Excellent session. Really useful and very relevant tools to help me me most effective in my role \
Great day\
Loved it! Can't wait to get started\
\
Excellent and thought provoking!\
Great course and went well beyond my already high expectations\
Great course really engaging \
\
\
It was a fantastic meeting, really well lead, I took a lot away from the course, I have a solid coaching plan in place now to change my teams behvaiour \
Always a pleasure to work with Karen \
Very encouraging instructors \
\
Perhaps a half day training would be better. Too much information and the duration was too long.\
Very useful training, thank you.\
\
Unfortunate was at end of a long week\
\
\
Facilitators are excellent - well prepared, knowledgeable, supportive and able to flex the agenda to optimise the learnings\
Reason I gave a 4 for the last one is that I feel we can at times put too much into a course and not fully embed it\
Great 2 day workshop- really helped team prepare for different situations and the emotions  Loved it , actors super  Jo and Glenn are awesome \
Great programme overall. \
\
Thanks for arranging the coaching skills workshop. It was evident that a lot of work had gone into the preparation for the meeting and also the running of the two days. I personally got a lot out of it.\
Really useful course with good, relevant content. Great balance between theory and practice. Both Jo and Glenn were very knowledgeable.\
Really enjoyed the course - gained a lot of examples and techniques that I would use going forward with team.\
\
Really helpful, friendly and very approachable trainer. She had the ability to engage people which are not interested. She was always able to answer and explain every question with really good examples.\
Really helpful, friendly and very approachable trainer. She had the ability to engage people which are not interested. She was always able to answer and explain every question with really good examples.\
\
great 2 day workshop, thank you  personally I would have liked to spend more time on each individual step within coaching model and to do more shorter role plays \
I would have loved to have one more day to give more consistency to the contents of the training through more role plays and interaction among us. But was really accurated and inspiring anyway! Many thanks to Karen, she built trust from the very begining and loved her passion and enthusiasm.\
\
It could have a little more mid-level management material as overall course seemed to be focused on junior managers/ team leads. However, several very useful action plans and models were presented, so overall a useful two days.\
I realy enjoy and feell very well on the course\
\
Very good course and a job well done by the facilitators. Would put more emphasize on the role-plays \
\
\
I think  the role plays were the most important part of the training and maybe the balance of the training shoul be shifted in that direction?. The role plays I think could be performed in the smaller subgroups (eg. in group of 6-8 persons), to make sure that everyone get the chance to practice (instead in the front of whole group). The smaller subgroups also would better refect the real life, where you are focusing only on TL's without paying attention on audiense. This would also improve the quality of feedback from group. Maybe only the best pair should present their skills in front of all others as a reward?\
Depending on the experience of the MSL, especially if you are a really fresh MSL, some Points Need a bit more time to be understood or better said, transferred in my own mind. This means that I understood what you said but I actually needed a few minutes to think about it.  \
\
The facilitators were full of energy! That was very motivating. They Also had a good feeling when to switch methods in order to allow the audience to refresh their minds.  The 2nd day was a little long. It would have been better to start 1 hour later.\
Very entertaining and engaging training. Very enthusiastic facilitators. A lot of insights from the role plays.\
We used only few pages of the material.\
\
\
Well done! \
\
I would be happy to get some more tips and insights for managers from the OTD  Also maybe some exemples for GROW model implementation as they are the ones that are doing the skype coaching for us \
This was the best part of the 3 days meeting. As a coach I still have a lot to learn and this helps me to make an extra small step forward.\
\
\
\
Thank you every much I prefer one day additional!\
It was great.  Maybe I need some more structure of 8 steps. This might be covered by self-education \
\
\
\
\
The Gene video is very old - could be modernized.  The big book - could be more specific & we could be guided through it... some content left hanging.\
\
\
I really liked Andrew and Karin as hosts of this course, they are so enthusiastic and full of energy which is vibrating to everyone in the room. I have the feeling I can use everything i learned and I'm really curious how it will effect my team members, because after all it's them who will benefit of it. Very happy to have done this course and very interesting group too. I liked the fact that there wasn't a powerpoint presentation, it was really hands on and interactive.\
A bit more time to prepare for role play would have been good. Especially for those introverts among us who can\'82\'c4\'f4t just wing it!\
Very good training, I rarely expirance trainings that well prepared and deliver effective. \
Thank You for amazing training. I love your energy!\
\
I thought this course was really helpful and will really help me to understand how to adopt these principles in my role and with my development \
\
\
Great job as always Chris! Very inspiring on many levels. \
It is great to have Chris to demo and deliver the TTT.\
Very insightful and inspirational!\
Great\
\
\
\
\
\
\
reallt good follow up from last course. some thing you had heard before but also new things that build on the 'old'- \
\
I would have liked more presentation and theory and not that many workshops. \
\
Super motivational \
I will take to my home a new standard to coach my team. Very useful and impactiful. I'm very exciting to start creating a matrix where we measure the AAM improvements on competitive skill.\
JP brought in great food for thought apart from Chris = great benefit. Very thought provoking. Now it is up to me to take massive action on what I have learned in order to bring my vision to life and over exceed my goals! \uc0\u63743 \'fc\'ed\'99\
More practice, more role plays \
\
Great support. Would have loved to talk even more about mindset in a \'82\'c4\'fbpsychology\'82\'c4\'fa way of thinking\
\
\
\
I'm a little biased here and trying out if the link works ;-)\
\
I really enjoyed the course. I would suggest mentioning other clients you are working with earlier on? \
\
Really enjoyed it and it gave me real ideas that I could use to make a difference.\
Interesting tools, excellent animation. Next time, interesting to see how to influence different personality\
Loved the energy that Louise Nd Becky brought to the training !  They really challenged us but made the tra8mig fun and interactive. There is so much that I will take forward from this. Thank you \uc0\u63743 \'fc\'f2\'e4 \
Excellent, engaging and informative! Exactly the right balance of humour and good content. Highly recommended! \
excellent session - simple but effective messages\
\
\
\
Highly energetic and motivating - excellent involvement of the participants. \
\
Fantastic as ever\
\
Thanks everyone for a great training! I miss y'all dearly!\
Brilliant programme. Loved the sessions and the facilitator was the nuts\
It was too cold in the room :-)\
\
facilities - cold room in the basement, no windows  trainers and OTD team - great, supportive, passionate! Loved this team! \
I loved the facilitator style, as well as the energy, support and enthusiasm of the entire team. I was very impressed with how open OTD was regarding its business model.\
A thoroughly enjoyable, if exhausting course! From the facilitators and presenters to the organisation and admin, everything was properly world class and impressive. I also felt that the mix of delegates worked particularly well - must be the kind of people you attract:-)  If I could suggest a couple of things to make things even better (these are niggles rather than deal-breakers) maybe think about a different room for the majority of long courses like this one and, if the course workbooks were printed on non-shiny paper, that would be awesome - it's tricky to write on the current ones.\
\
My general comment is that I am really disappointed with the course itself. I was expecting to gain some knowledge about Business Intelligence systems, understand different BI techniques and BigData.  The problem here is not about the consultant or the quality of the material, the problem is that I signed up for a different course to what was actually delivered.  \
It has been a surely worthy learning and refreshing opportunity for me. It has helped to open my mind to new possibilities and SCM industry situation. Likewise, a resource base for me to further build knowledge and continually enhance own professional capacities. All with focus to add more value in my service delivery to my organization and a more knowledge-powered self.\
The course has impacted positively on  our already acquired knowledge of supply chain management.. I recommend this course should continue in collaboration with Headquarters Ngeriia AIr Force.\
\
I enjoyed the course and it\'82\'c4\'f4s delivery by the consultant. I wish we were introduced and exposed to IT applications that could have helped with computations, charts and graphs. These would ease the pressure at work and provide the SCM practitioner with sufficient tools to deliver on his mandate to the company.\
Leo is an excellent trainer with vast knowledge of the course subject and of business in general. He is highly personable and delivered the training in a relaxed and friendly manner, whilst ensuring he related the content to my current business situation. \
\
\
\
\
Everything went very well and I have gained a lot of knowledge from the training session. The thing I would suggest is if maybe the snacks provided can be communicated with the delegate before hand because I had some food which wasn\'82\'c4\'f4t ideal for me but aside that everything went very well. \
\
Everything went well but did not appreciate the customer service personnel that attended to me while I was trying to get registered for the course.\
The overall content is good sand the small course numbers allows personalised approach to training. \
The overall content is good sand the small course numbers allows personalised approach to training. \
The overall content is good sand the small course numbers allows personalised approach to training. \
None\
\
It\'82\'c4\'f4s my great pleasures to hear key speaker mr Gerald (his knowledge and experience) also so satisfied with management team\
I would recommend to my friends, colleagues regarding LBTC. \
\
\
\
Mainly the course was very effective and sufficient I have got a lot of knowledge out of it , just regarding the launch it would be nice if is familiar to the candidate cultural.\
\
Training is good but content can be improved to meet general subject object\
Overall the trainers is good. To improve LBTC should provide one of your trainers in industry players to share their experiences and problems solving.\
Bring more industry player that can share their reality experience & problem solving.\
Excellent\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
ok\
\
\
\
I would like to thank both coonsultants Mr. John and Mr. Gerald for their great support and cooperation. They are very knowledgeable and well experienced on the subject which I gain a lot during the training \
Everything was great  The consultant and the service team were helpful and cooperative \
\
I would suggest to incloud more Interactive exercises \
The food was provided from a good food stores. Yet, it would be great if we had the privilege to choose what to eat from the menu . Thank you so much for your support and hospitality.\
The course was a good pace, very tailored and where appropriate we were able to discuss personal challenges and approaches.   I came away with a number of tools that I will use, as appropriate, at work. Hopefully confidence will come over time and with practice.  \
I definitely enjoyed the course this week and I found it very helpfull and I will definitely recommend it to everyone.\
This is such a good and learning tools\
Pete is a great facilitator. He really nailed it! I definitely will be attending other courses with LBTC.\
\
My trainer Vick was very thorough and we covered everything I needed to start drafting a new policy for my company.. Would recommend to colleagues and friends.\
\
\
Course materials were detailed: instructor was exceptional in knowledge of subject area that derived from his practical experiences. Overall, it was an excellent training programme in Strategic Procurement and Supply Chain Management \
Clarify the location of the building to the employee before enough time of his arrival Choose a known place\
\
Am so much delighted to be among the participant glory be to God Almighty \
The training generally was very insightful which was even made better by introduction of videos and practical class work. \
Great interactive participation of attendees, some new learning irrespective of exposure to Procurement activities. I will recommend to serious minded contracting professionals \
All the program and serves are interesting and impactful \
\
\
Well organized course\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
It was excellent course , excellent consultant  Thank you so much to all LBTC team \
V good session and relatebable \
Pete was great and really interesting! Nice to hear proper success stories, and clever strategies, which I will endeavour to use.  Thank you \
\
\
\
\
\
\
Prof Krishnan sure knows how to present the training materials/papers. Thumbs up for him.     \
\
\
\
The training was worth the resources expended by my organisation. In the future, i would expect LBTC to contact delegates individually by e-mail to confirm entry for the training and provide travel guide before the first day of the training programme. Also, this is the first contact I am having with LBTC since I departed the UK. \
\
The Course was indeed value for money,but there is need to improve the facility  in the meeting rooms so that it is adequate for the number of Delegates.Add lunch breaks ,improve the Tea/Coffee breaks.\
Exceeded expectations \
\
The course is designed for trainers not L&D Professionals I would like to add this info in the website.  Thanks\
The course was excellent and educative0\
No further comments \
The course was very interesting and educative.\
Good \
\
Am glad to have experienced this training with LBTC . My expectations were met accordingly and I look forward to another level of knowledge experience someday. Thank you.\
\
\
Satisfactory overall\
In my opinion the courses should be more practical rather then Theory.\
\
Should provide snacks throughout the course   \
\
\
\
\
Thank your for this valuable course, I really enjoyed the time with the more valuable information that improved my skills/knowledge.  \
The overall course content and impact is excellent. The info graphic presentation made it more interesting. I am happy that I attended.\
The course content and material met my expectation.\
\
\
\
Generally it was good enough and value for money \
\
Overall, the course was well packaged. The Consultants did a very good job in their presentations. Peter Doyle was excellent, their was no dull moment in his presentation. I\'82\'c4\'f4m proud to say that we had value for money.\
Excellent course contents\
The administrators are well experienced and they are serious and business minded.\
The time for the programme was limited, could not cover all aspects of procurement.\
I really appreciate information and knowledge transfer way from the consultant.\
\
Overall I am very happy and satisfied with your training services. However, I wish that if the lunch was included in your program. \
I will like you to improve on your network.\
\
\
\
\
This is a great program and will recommend to others\
\
The  course facilitator is very competent and highly knowledgeable  He is highly recommended \
The overall experience from the training is great .\
Good environment to learn\
No comment \
Very good course. Thank you.\
\
\
\
I thank specially the instructors that were with us in the course for the concerned the showed at making the classes to appear very relevant to all of us despite the different back grounds.\
The program is generally educative and suggest that it should be extended to other employees\
Satisfactory \
\
Need to introduce one day site seeing\
\
Invitation to my organization for more people to benefit \
(1) Breakfast and lunch was not provided. This is my first time of experiencing such in a training. (2)Excursion was also excluded , this supposed to have been part of the programme.\
\
Very intensive course which covered a myriad of HR strategic management topics. Since the group was small, we had time to discuss, and learn from each other. The lecturer provided hands on examples. He answered our queries in a very professional manner as he is very knowledgeable and has vast experience. \
\
In house caterers advised for a better concentration \
Please time should be provided for sightseeing London so that delegates can concentrate more especially for your African delegates \
The course has been quite interesting and educative the facilitators are quite excellent and very interactive sessions\
\
\
None.\
I suggest that since this courses are not examined at the end, latching should try in a way to also get back to the clients with a feedback about their performance and possible suggestions as to the way forward.\
\
Looking for LBTC to become CPD accredited  Looking for oil and gas industry dedicated courses in finance and accounting at management level\
I would like launch to be provided and probably have a tour round the city to spice it up.\
Excellent, I really learn a lot\
\
Excellent arrangement and delivery. Please include lunch next time.\
Overall it was a good experience and i am looking to have training with LBTC in future as well. \
\
\
Fantastic training. Very knowledgeable trainers.\
LBTC is a very good learning place I will always recommend for training.\
I will recommend LBTC for more personnel to be trained by my company and other organizations \
I will recommend LBTC for more personnel to be trained by my company and other organizations \
Good. Keep it up.\
\
The training is good for me and met my expectations.\
The course is educative, practical, interactive and met the purpose for which it was organized. The purposed realizing a good and effective value chain, the course should be extended to facility managers and IT staff.\
\
\
\
\
I will suggest to my HR department for them doing leadership program to our middle management staff in MOF.\
Ms Salma is very knowledgeable and provided us guidance as well as insights on real life situations that we encounter at work. She also coached us on exemplary leadership skills which we can apply in our daily tasks. My favourite part of the course was coaching, clear the space and avoiding watery languages. Overall, the course has been a wonderful journey for us and we can\'82\'c4\'f4t wait to share what we have learnt with our organisation. Thank you LBTC.\
Thank you for the course and all support.  I think a list of hotels you recommend for the trannies it would be good. This might be difficult as you have plenty hotels around St. Pancras. Also help people by telling that the place is close to a station and the line to pick to get there. Actually mention the all means or options to get there would be good.\
Everything is generally ok except that going forward there should be tea, coffee, hot chocolate etc and lunch available for more convinience  to restrict movement outside the training facility\'82\'c4\'f4s \
\
Well organized and effective.\
The course is interesting and educative and I commend the organizers for doing a good job.\
The course is well packaged and delivered.But for a foreign student,there is need to include study tour of London to some places of historical importance. There is also need for group photos of the participants.\
I truly enjoyed the learning processes. My expectations were indeed met.\
The course is educative and interesting \
\
\
I learned a lot in this course and found it extremely informative. I look forward to implementing these tools in our organisation \
I so enjoyed the training \'82\'c4\'ec Jon was excellent in his approach and delivery of both creative writing and motivational course.  Particularly he was very knowledgeable on how to motivate a team, going through some of the modules and psychometric tests \'82\'c4\'ec which are always very interesting \'82\'c4\'ec not only as a manager but also as a human being. \
\
\
LBTC can further organize tour for participants apart from airport pickups.Over all course was very educative and consultants excellent \
I have strong believe in the ability of consultant to delivered a verry good course that can improve and add additional knowledge that Will be beneficiary to individual,group ,organisation or government.\
\
I chief Akiode highly delighted and happy to be a parakeet of this laaudable programme\
\
I am satisfied \
\
\
\
I am very much impressed about Course contents, delivery and I gained very tremendously from the robust wealth of experience of Course Consultant. He is surely an asset to LBTC \
My purpose of coming to the UK and the choice of having this programme with this organisation is not defeated. So I will like to know how to get myself involved in any of your other programmes to my benefits.\
\
\
\
I would like to thank everyone who is a part of this course who put all the efforts to get the important information to us by facilitating the lectures and the administration matters \
Excellent lecturers  Excellent learning materials  \
\
\
Excellent course , I highly recoment it to my coleages who have not yet done it  Contents excellent, Lecturers are excellent!\
Of all the things that were listed above, I am extremely pleased with all of it. From my initial interest in the course until it's completion. The efficiency of the administration was unbelievable, to the point where everyone my office were surprised and as such, consider LBTC to be the first option for any training we wish to have done moving forward.\
\
I hope all of the best to you and your Centers \
\
\
\
The training was successfully organised. \
I have no comment\
Good training. Great venue, great Facilitators. \
\
\
\
\
\
The course was great because our instructor tailored it to the audience, used practical real life examples that related to all of us, and supplemented the material with real life examples.\
\
The Microtek training room was really warm, especially on Monday afternoon.  The whole floor seemed warm throughout the week.  I had to wear short-sleeved shirts and pull up my hair to stay cool.    The instructor went through many examples.  It would have been nice to have exhibits in the training book for the example.  A example sample audit report would have been greatly appreciated for reference.  \
\
I wish we worked through the process on a more step by step bases. ie. first just breaking down an organization by business units, then breaking down the business units into outcome because when I was asked to do the work I was confusing the concepts since then were all presented and discussed at once, not in steps.\
\
The training was excellent- Dr. Murdock is incredibly knowledgeable, engaging, and breaks down the material in an easy-to-understand manner. His real-life examples helped add context and clarity to the material.\
Overall, excellent instructor and course but a better method of catch-up is needed to minimize the stress of falling behind in the course. Essentially, I was able to maintain the pace but at times it was difficult. There was not always enough time to fully assimilate each step before moving on to the next. And a full one hour lunch break is needed.\
Homework was required for the course. Although a brief explanation was given on the instruction of how to complete the assignment, it would have been beneficial to have examples to view prior to completing the homework. \
I appreciated the sections that after IT topics were discussed, ideas to consider while auditing the topic (application controls, for example) were helpful. Tying the section topic to auditing considerations and techniques should continually be emphasized.\
When I registered for the event I listed 'vegetarian' as a dietary restriction and unfortunately no vegetarian options were offered for the catered lunch. Not a detractor from the excellent course material though.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
We received a book but could not follow along as the presentation differed from the book.  While I appreciated the additional content Mary provided, the book should have been updated when we arrived.  I would have liked to discuss the questions in the book at the end of each section. While we received lots of good information in the class, more discussion would have been beneficial to me.  Having lunch provided was nice  but the selections were not to my liking, of course you cant please everyone. Students in the other courses were provided with fresh hot meals including salad and vegetables while we got sandwiches and chips. I would have preferred getting my own lunch for healthier options.\
It is hard to make fraud auditing entertaining, much less when attending the seminar virtually.  Hats off to the instructor!  I actually remained engaged for three days sitting at my dining room table. Enjoyed the course and learned a lot.\
\
\
\
I don't have much IT background.  After taking this class, I have enhanced my IT knowledge and learned many new frameworks about cyber security.    \
The instructor spent more time on things such as laws/chain of custody than areas that I thought were more critical.  It would have been nice to discuss what types of evidence or information you would request when doing the audit of the various sections we had discussed.\
\
\
Registering was easy, getting the hotel block rate communicated on the MIS website was a nightmare and took a lot of time.  I thought the materials I obtained during training were extremely valuable, and worth the price of admission.  Martin Green was an exceptional instructor, I really enjoyed learning from him.  I think the first 2 days to get through the first chapter were far too long, as a lot of it was in the pre-requisite 'intermediate' course.  I felt the material the last 2 days was the stuff I really wanted to learn, and we through it at a lightning pace.\
The facilities at the Back Bay Boston were fine.   They could have had more large garbage cans available for take out containers, etc.    It would have been nice to have more example items to walk through audit steps.   Marty was very knowledgeable and interacted well with the class. \
\
\
\
\
\
I would like to speak to someone about my experience taking this course. Thanks.\
The labs and 'AD Audit Plan' part of the program were great, but the discussion drifted off topic far too often.\
\
\
The class was great.  I think our instructor did a great job explaining things, especially since there were different levels of IT experience in the class.  \
\
\
\
\
The facilities were very good.\
\
\
\
The training was designed for the people who already have an experience on Oracle EBS system.  The training could be more effective if an Oracle EBS system was used during the training instead of static power point presentations. We have just started an audit and I and my colleagues did not have a previous experience on the live system.   Most of the concepts could  make more sense when we see how those modules or screens are accessed.  We had seen all pieces but not  the overall system.  The time allocated for this kind of training (3 days)  is not  enough to cover all important areas effectively, However, the instructor  (Jeffry) shared all needed supportive documents and information with us.  Receiving those resources made the training valuable.  Thank you  Lunch: The lunch boxes were not labeled and no-one knew what is in each box until we open it.     \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The course-pack is a great tool. The teacher can be better interacting with his students, be able to listen more what others have to say. In addition, the teacher had some commintments for the last day of class, so he ended the class earlier at 1 pm rather than 3 pm. We rushed through the last chapters.\
This was an excellent class.  The instructor was very knowledgeable on the subject matter, and did a great job of presenting.  The course materials are very well documented and will be a great resource for our audit department. \
\
Loved the lunch brought in for us. Saved time and money hunting for a place to eat. \
Loved the lunch brought in for us. Saved time and money hunting for a place to eat. \
\
Wonderful \
The room was a bit cold.  It would also be helpful to have the slides used in the class for the class session.  Day one was the only day we didn't have up to date slides.  \
Regarding virtual attendance, I understand need to verify virtual people being present and paying attention, but got annoying when turns out that the questions became a sort of continual 'pop quiz' while physical attendees didn't have to do anything similar.\
\
\
There was an entire set of material (Leonard referred to as the small book) that was not provided to virtual attendees until the second day. There were multiple sections of the main book that were provided to attendees but outdated and have yet to been provided. The administration of the material for virtual attendees needs improvement. \
\
Excellent course all the way around.  Enjoyed Back Bay venue.\
\
I believe the instructor was ineffective. He is a nice and friendly person however it was difficult to see the value except for the stories he would share from his past experience. Besides sharing his stories, he simply read the powerpoint slides word for word. For more than half the course the instructor chose to speak from the back of the room (facing the projector screen, like the rest of us students) which made for an incredibly awkward and disconnecting experience. I hope this can be improved upon for future courses. \
Classrooms were great, content was brilliant, teacher was excellent, but the event was seriously lacking in networking, and food.    This is by far the most expensive training I\'82\'c4\'f4ve ever been sent to by my entity in seven years.  And the absolute worst in \'82\'c4\'facontinental breakfast\'82\'c4\'f9 with no lunch provided. Meaning that one must practically run to get to another building for lunch and eat in less than 20 minutes in order to make it back timely.  I was surprised that MISTI had an entire floor of trainees and classes, but was so poorly prepared for the attendees.  Lack of signage on training floor, hard to find snack area, which consistently ran out of food, and even front desk at hotel wasn\'82\'c4\'f4t sure what floor group was on.  Could be time for a different hotel. \
\
\
\
\
I was very disappointed with this program. Looking through the course outline and the materials I was very excited to learn so many topics that would be useful in my everyday job. However, the instructor did not help to meet the learning objectives. While the instructor was very nice and genuine, his teaching style missed the mark to say the least. He sat a chair at the back of the room and taught 3 of the 4 days from the back of the classroom, which I have never seen done before. He also read each PowerPoint slide word for word. There were no activities/learning opportunities. I do not feel like I got much out of this course. \
\
\
I was looking for an audit program for cloud-based services but Section 6 (Audit Approach) of the course handout did not deliver anything of value.  It did not rate much coverage in class and its content (operating system audit, network audit, database audit, business process audit, and DRP/BCP could have fit into any number of other courses.  Too generic and not useful in the context of this course.  The breakfast items (bagels, pastries) on the second day (Friday) appeared to be leftovers from the previous day.\
\
\
\
\
I was looking forward to this course after taking Intermediate IT Audit from Jason Claycomb last year. This program was prepared and presented in the same excellent, easy to follow manner. Thank you Jason.\
\
If the trainings end up changing rooms, Misti should send out a communication to let the class know about the change.\
no natural light around the entire floor\
Only recommendation would be to include lunch. Other than that, everything was great.\
Only recommendation would be to include lunch. Other than that, everything was great.\
\
\
The overall course was very informative. I will be looking forward to attending future sessions.\
\
\
\
\
I think need an additional day for the course material \
Doctor Murdock is amazing.  Such a great teaching style to accompany his experience and expertise.  I feel as though He made everyone in the class comfortable from the start, and free to ask questions and contribute to the overall effectiveness of the course materials.  Everyone in the class was able to participate and clarify as needed, and the many real-world examples of internal audits made the words in the book really come to life.  Thanks again!\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
This was a good course in defining what ERM should be doing and as a result what to look for when auditing ERM. However, I think it could easily be done in 2 days. \
\
\
\
\
Quite a few of the slides were incorrect, outdated, repetitive, and often contained numbering systems that were wrong (ie there were two #28s) \
I would suggest a 2 day vs 3 day course; keep materials at a high level vs getting into the technical aspects. \
\
I have several comments to make: (Happy to discuss over a phone call) - The course has a large number of topics to cover over a period of four days (9 am - 4 pm with 2-3 breaks and 1 hour for lunch), which meant that there was limited time for discussions and sharing best practices. The instructor was more concerned with rushing through topics than facilitating healthy discussions. - The instructor was not equipped with latest trends and developments in the field of internal auditing. All examples he quoted were from companies that appeared to be at a very low level of internal audit maturity.  - The instructor benchmarked everything to how they were done in his previous organization - Astra. These benchmarks dated back at least 8-10 years and he did not appear to be aware that progressive audit departments, like ours, are at a very advanced stage of maturity. - The coaching style of the instructor was one-way and did not act as a facilitator for discussing and brainstorming best practices and audit strategies. His objective was to get the course delivered in the given time. In addition, the instructor had no respect of other's point of views and perspectives and had strong pre-conceived notions of what is right or wrong.  - There was no story-telling involved in the style of the instructor. The models and examples presented were not linked to stories and real-world examples.  - Number of participants were very limited, which did not make for engaging and productive discussions. Four of seven participants were from my organization working in the same team - the other three participants were from audit departments at the lower end of the maturity curve. \
Part of the course was teaching us how to use software like Microsoft Visio and Audit programs such as IDEA. It would have been nice to have computers in our class to at least be able to use these software and do what he taught us in practice.  Other than that, the speaker was very knowledgeable and I had a good experience.\
\
While the staff were very friendly and accommodating, the hotel was a bit lacking.  The electricity kept going on and off the first day and the area we were in had floor dryers going all week due to a water leak.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Prior to start if the session on the first day I called MicroTek help line twice and was told that I had logged in correctly and just to wait for the class to start.  I apparently was logged incorrectly and had to contact MISTI for assistance.  Finally, a half hour into the course I figured out how to join the class.\
For smaller groups (3 or less students) this class could be shortened to 2 days or 2.25 days.  The instructor did a good job answering questions, providing examples, and customizing to the course participants.   I would like to see more sophisticated information on SDLC (beyond the basics of scope, risk, etc), since my audit group focuses almost exclusively on this within the Digital/IT space.  For example, how to integrate (and examples of) technical objectives within an SDLC project management audit. I'd also like to see more on auditing digital/IT transformations, as this is a very big topic for my team auditing this year and several years to come.  I was expecting a little more of these types of big picture areas to be covered.\
\
just more big room \
\
\
\
The training room was quite warm the first two days, but that is beyond MISTI's control.  The instructor asked for the temperature to be adjusted but it seemed to be a problem with the whole facility.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Exceptional course and facility!\
\
\
I was very impressed with the entire experience. The instructor was very knowledgeable about the software, even to the point of explaining to individuals in the class what functions of the software would better apply to their situation over others and why it wouldn't work in another's situation.  The facility was well equipped clean and all staff that I conversed with was pleasant and helpful. I am absolutely returning to take more classes on the subject as soon as I am allowed! \
\
Everything was great about the course except that the training materials we were given was just 137 pages held together by a binder clip. For a $2200 course I expected something a little nicer or at least a digital version that is searchable. Was a bit disappointed in that. Everything else was great!\
I would have liked for more instruction into the what and why of selection for testing. By that I would have liked for time to have been spent stating why certain fields were used for testing in areas such as joining tables. Some of the training was more of follow the leader and less of this is how you/why you are doing this particular step/data selection. Hope this makes sense.\
For the price we paid, it should have included lunch.  \
Rita Roberts, the instructor was the best.  Very knowledgeable and provided clear and thorough examples.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The instructor was excellent I really enjoyed my training course. The documentation support is comprehensive and very usuful for my job. I could not expect more.  \
\
\
\
Need extra time more practice\
\
Very interactive course and suitable for all IT Auditors looking forward to enhancing their skills. \
\
\
Air conditioning of the training room was in bad shape. This however was fixed later in the week.\
\
the only concern I had was that since this is a very technical course, and there is a minimum number of registrations required, MISTI did not confirm the course 30 days prior.  most attendees didn't register until that time, thus I was advised to hold off on travel plans until confirmed.  this ended up costing my company several hundred $$ more.  We almost cancelled because it took too long before confirming.  Maureen Turner was very helpful and we were in regular communication.   Course was very good, speaker extremely knowledgeable and engaging.  I was able to network with other auditors from utility industry -  all positive.   Training facility was good - beverages, morning foods had good supply / assortment - good parking and close to the one hotel.  Location of facility could have been better - not much around and you needed a vehicle or transportation to go anywhere / do anything after hours.    \
Would like to see more visual representation of the different controls if possible.\
This was a full virtual classroom seminar and it was very easy to participate still and get the full classroom experience.\
n/a\
A few slides too small text / charts to be able to read -> more difficult to follow.  Consider GDPR in this evaluation. Currently not in compliance. \
\
the instructor was fun and energetic.  He used his experiences to convey effectively and efficiently the topics of discussion. \
\
\
\
\'82\'c4\'ee\
The training materials were disconnected from the lecture discussions. The materials could use greater detail. I did not like the exercises, there is not enough time to go through them in depth. Shawna was a great instructor and I would gladly train with her again. The facility had a great location but the temperature in the room was low and very distracting.\
The location was great as well as the meals. However the room temperature was awful and distracting.\
Please see my previous comments made on the first 3 days of this course.\
\
\
Great training facilities \
Excellent course - really enjoyed the entire 3 days\
\
The facility wasn't as nice as previous MISTI courses I've been to. Would also be nice if it was closer to the city and not out in the suburbs. \
#NAME?\
It was great really great. \
\
I don't understand why we are located at a very expensive hotel in the touristic part I'd Dubai when the business center of Dubai would be more appropriate and cheaper. Next to that it is a bad sign when even the trainer is not staying in the hotel because misti thinks it is expensive. The hotel did not offer a discount on the hotel room and the hotel is outdated compared to other hotels in the area that are even cheaper. \
Good overview for new internal auditors\
\
I registered for the course online but before doing so I had to call MIS TI -  The service was excellent \
\
Prefer to have a room with a view , it can get depressive at some stage when the brain starts to shutdown. The course materials can be improved as follows: - include a multiple choice Qs at the end of each topic to help consolidate the topics discussed - the case study type Qs  at the end of each chapter could include a suggested answer albeit not specific but generic in nature. - the course materials should be bound rather than being filed in a folder  \
Perfect- needs no fixing.\
\
\
\
N/A\
Greg was great.  I really enjoyed his style and the materials he presented. His approach is exactly the direction our audit department wants to go. \
The course instructor listed on the MISTI website was never updated. I chose this specific course in order to get access to a different instructor. One day 1, you could tell our instructor is not used to teaching and the presentations slides were not his own. He was often fumbling and trying to remember the original professors story. All in all the course was great because there were a lot of experienced participants. I wish MISTI would have sent out a notification that the instructor had been changed, I probably would have postponed for a later date. This was the conversation that I and many of the students discussed at lunch hour. \
\
I really enjoyed every bit of the course.\
\
The course materials were pretty much basic. I was expecting to go deep in technical audit process with real templates and samples.\
\
\
\
\
Very well planned. Competent and experienced instructor.\
\
Lunch should be provided as part of the class.  It would benefit the students in many ways.  1) The amount of time for lunch - getting out and back can be challenging; 2) Networking with other class participants during lunch.  \
Thank You - greatly enjoyed the class.  Small class size allowed for learning from other classmates. I am not sure about more advanced class (question below) because my role here may be changing... \
The facilities were not near a hotel.  This required me to have to rent a car and drive everyday to the training location.  You may want to look at the potential to find a location closer to a hotel.  The instructor had a few problems getting the demonstrations to work.  We spent time waiting for him to figure out issues that were specific to a particular software.  In most cases, I do not plan to use the software he was having difficulties with.  Because the class was not about using software, but about doing data analytics to identify potential issues, I think we should have spent less time on the mechanics of the different software programs available, and more time on the thought processes to work with units, identify potential issues, properly document potential issues, and report conclusions.  There are the types of activities the audit staff will need to know regardless of the software tool they use to perform the testing.\
\
\
\
\
\
Instructor was unprofessional at times by making comments to some of the participants.  I had heard this was the case prior to registering for the course.  I was hopeful these issues would have been resolved, but it appears they have not.  No comments were made to me personally.\
\
\
For the virtual seminars, we were unable to hear the questions and comments from the people in the class. In the future, you may need more microphones.  In addition, I felt the instructor knew his material. However, he spent too much time telling stories that did not help me learn the technical material. He should concentrate more time on the technical material (which is the sections I was most interested in learning about). The course materials were very good.\
\
\
\
\
\
This course was really well designed for the virtual training and would recommend. \
\
Excellent starting point for individuals new to IT Audit. Encompasses a wide array of topics including IT General Controls, Basic IT information, Database, Network and Business Application Controls, Planning, Documentation to name a few. Mark did a wonderful job conducting the course. His method of first explaining what was covered in each section and then teaching providing relevant real life examples was great. His examples were tailored to the course material and he conducted the course at a good pace and in an easy to follow manner. Training materials were well organized and more than adequate.\
Mark did a very good job communicating.  Used stories and real life examples very well. \
The instructor was phenomenal. This course was recommended to me by a colleague at FIS and now I understand why. This is a great course for any IT auditor to take. I only wish the materials had more takeaways I can bring back to my team, such as more references and resources for future engagements. Having said that, the instructor did a great job of providing this for topics when he had specific knowledge in that area. \
\
Thank you very much for a terrific course and a terrific instructor!\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The price for registration was high, especially considering no meals were provided. Also, the training facility had zero hotels within walking distance and was a significant distance from the airport. \
\
Rita Roberts was my ACL 101 instructor and she was very knowledgeable of the course materials and explained the material in a very clear manner.  She was also extremely patient with all of our questions, and took the time to ensure we all understood the material.\
Excellent training instructor, program and facilities.\
\
The instructor for this course was phenomenal.  She knows her stuff inside out.  She presented the information in such a way that not only will you remember, but you can build upon what you've learned.   I was very impressed with this instructor. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Some network issues, no breakfasts or lunches, minimal snacks and refreshments at breaktimes\
I did not receive an electronic copy of the slide decks used in class. Luckily my classmate send me an email she received from MISTI for registering for the class. \
Training facility was very poor. Unable to adjust room temperature, lack of food options (only food was a mile walk).   Instructor was great.\
\
The projector could have been better/bigger to make it easier to see everything. Rooms were a little dated but got the job done. \
\
Wonderful course.  I will recommend this to anyone looking for SAP training.  The instructor was brilliant. \
Awesome course!  Looking forward to taking more in the near future.  Thank you!\
\
\
Communicate with students about the improvements that are being made so we are aware what's happening behind the scenes. We obviously talk with each other, and share similar concerns, so perhaps a monthly newsletter could address this. Or have the tutors share an update at the beginning of each workshop/webinar.\
\
The course atmosphere was not always conducive to a good learning environment. I felt that there was some tension between the group and the tutor a lot of the time during this course. \
\
Our tutor Diane Allen didn't seem to have a great understanding of the level of course, mainly her feedback during the course and with the assignment was about the structure of the assignment report e.g. titles, subtitles etc. and not about the content, often it felt that she was reading off the presentation without having seen it before. On the last workshop we had a different tutor who had travelled up from London, by comparison she clearly had taught the subject for a while and knew the content inside and out. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The information says my tutor was Jacqui Findlay, however she was not my tutor, instead Jimmy Nandi was my tutor. Despite the awful start to the course by MOL, Jimmy really helped during the workshops and with the feedback he provided following the formative assessments. \
*PLEASE NOTE: The course I was scheduled on ended on 31/01/2017, and not 13/08/2017 as described on this form.*  It is a real shame the this course did not run as expected, as the content covered was very interesting, and I feel that had it not felt so rushed and disjointed (due to having to work around not having the second text book for the first 2 sessions), I could have gained more benefit from my learning, and potentially obtained a higher grade.  I must compliment David MacKinnon on his professionalism, as it was evident that he too had to work around some admin issues, in addition to us not having received our course materials, but was able to remain professional and supportive through the sessions, and was still able to provide a positive learning experience with what he had available to him.\
\
I learned such a lot, which has helped me grow in confidence and ability. \
\
\
\
\
\
I find our tutor, Sarah Brown, really helpful and I am really glad we have her again for the next few modules. \
\
\
\
I am enjoying studying with MOL the balance is just right, however the fact that I am even filling in this EXIT survey when I am still on programme shows a lot about the administration. \
\
MOL admin usual shambles.\
While my comments aren't overly positive I do like the course content and find the monthly sessions sit well alongside my full time job. I enjoy studying with MOL however the level 5 was a more positive experience for me. \
usual MOL shambolic administration. Group far too big - seemed like they were doubling the group to save tutor costs - not fair on David. Feedback on formative assessment given after summative submitted. Totally pointless exercise and unproductive use of David's time.\
The time between completing the last module and getting overall results is far too long. almost 4 months after submitting my final assignment I haven't had a certificate or confirmation that I've passed the overall course (I have had confirmation that I've passed all the modules). Generally communication isn't great. Some people seem to know about a graduation event but I've heard nothing. All the modules are quite separate and there were two different VLEs I had to use across the course which was confusing. \
\
\
I have only completed two modules but as stated above some content I find very interesting and useful and other content I find too obscure and of limited benefit\
\
I achieved a good pass in my course, the materials were clear and the exam centre staff were absolutely terrific. My only problem was my online course ran out one week before my exams, I made a panicky, tearful call to the MOL team - they could not have been more helpful and I was soon back on track, I can't thank them enough.  Perhaps a step should be put in place so that you are sent a warning email saying 'your online study material won't be available in 'x' amount of days do you need an extension? ' I'd highly recommend using MOL, staff are proactive and I learnt loads in a relatively short space of time.  Thanks Cecilia \
\
\
Generally very well written and informative content. However, as the learning materials are aimed at a national audience a few of the generalisations and trends mentioned were not in keeping with what I have seen in my specific market. I believe a candidate should have at least 2 years agency experience before expanding their knowledge with this course.\
I am near to the end of unit one. I am enjoying the studying and find the webinars interesting to listen to.\
\
\
I have learnt a good deal from the workbook as I am new to the M+E industry. This is by far the hardest industry to learn products as I have done in every other sector in construction, simply because of the vast amount of products that are always changing. I also feel the assesors comments were mostly correct but in some respects were slightly unfair when I was accused of doing the 'bear minimum' to get by, which is totally incorrect.   Overall, I'm pleased to have completed it and look forward to moving onto the next one.\
\
I was very happy with MOL modules,there where very hopeful in my work,increasing my knowledge,so I could give better advice to customers \
\
Fantastic course and I did learn a lot but could have done with more information and to go less in depth on certain subjects. \
Great courses, thank you, on my 3rd now.\
This was the first  distance learning course I've ever done and I would certainly recommend this approach to anyone who ordinarily cant spend time away to study. I'm certainly looking forward, time permitting, to completing another module. \
Great Course, Good Tutors and good time frame to do the modules \
got quite frustrated at times but took time out  and then went back to it. There was so much more to   to learn about so much that i did not expect.\
Tutorial dates did not work for me. We're either too late or early. Would like some video tutorials I could click on as and when I was ready to start the next module.\
I have done several MOL courses over the years, highly recommended.  Thanks MOL\
\
\
\
I found the first module interesting and relevant to my role but the second module was of little value to me. \
\
I have found the Property courses very good.  They study material is very easy to follow and broken up well with some webinars and practice exams.  A very good introduction to Residential Lettings.\
I love all course and I get job and I have good knowledge now in the area what I was studying. Very helpful materials . Thank you .\
\
\
The course in my opinion was well designed and tailored to my needs. It was well structured and the assessors comments I also found useful - not just ticks and a 'well done' - some supportive comments and suggestions.\
\
\
Very helpful for me personally \
I am on the first module and so far it has been really good. I am really pleased to have started this.\
\
afterall very good\
Very interesting course material and the questions do a great job of really establishing the things I have learned throughout the documents.\
\
The course has a very broad base, his covers the basics for all common aspects of the electrical world and applies it to real life applications, thus making it much more accessible. I would like to have seen the course start with 2 books and then one each time you return one. Meaning there isn't a gap. Very happy with the course so far.\
An excellent detailed course which prepared me very well for my ARLA exam. Course content comes in the form of large folder which is a great study tool.This educational tool will further anyone's  knowledge and understanding of residential Lettings. Best of all you can contact MOL with any questions or queries about the course and they are always happy to help and professional.\
Brilliant course. Great system.\
I believe this course is worth doing, however I believe having someone readily available to ask questions about the content contained in the courses should be included as part of the standard package. I could not afford the more expensive packages and at times felt that I needed to speak to an expert to have some things explained better to me.  I passed all 4 exams with flying colours but found part of the learning process frustrating. As a trainer myself I am aware of the importance of clarity when presenting information to adult learners.\
\
6 months is short time as I am not near finishing and I have been told the online material is only for 6 months which is not sufficient time. We need the online material to last for 12 months at least\
\
Really enjoying the course. \
\
\
The pack almost looks daunting when it is delivered, but once you get started, everything is so well explained in the pack and covers everything in detail, along with extra reading sources if you need to know a little extra, the check questions all the way through also make sure you full understand each section before moving on. The online portal is packed with useful info and is so easy to use!  Completing the course has given  me so much more valuable insight to the industry. \
All the revision and studying materials were excellent and enabled me to pass all sections within 6 weeks. Very happy \
some of the spelling need looking in to in the books\
I wealth of information in the course. Makes the seemingly impossible pile of learning possible, better yet, EASY!\
\
Having completed my first 2 modules, (Fundamentals of Electricity & Cable, Wiring Accessories) Gaining a pass on the first course and getting distinction on the second, I felt I drastically improved by learning from the comments given to me by my assessor. Cant wait to start my third module this year, working on hitting 10 within the next couple of years. Thank you for all your help and support so far and giving me the knowledge to succeed within my role.\
\
\
\
Thank you for the comprehensive and practical layout of the course content. It made the whole process more user friendly, especially for a someone who has not 'studied' for a number of years.\
Absolutely beriliant idea with good and effective information and easy to learn, my fist Experiace of self study but it's going really well , thank you \
\
\
\
I studied all the information in the first section and have failed the exam three times now. The questions on the exam were nothing like the course work. I passed the test exams you provided so was very shocked to fail each time. The course work doesn't cover anywhere near enough information compared to what the exams require. I am feeling very disappointed with the support.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Results were due on 30th January but were not released.  This caused an extremely anxious feeling and was not a nice way to end the course.\
\
Although the tutor was very knowledgeable and helpful, I felt that some of the key areas, particularly providing clarity around what was required for the assignments should have been provided in the assignment briefs in the learner journey provided.  Please also note that there was too much pre-work for each of the workshops and that it was not realistic for it to be completed whilst also working full time.  It was the same with the expectation for two 3,000 word assignments to be completed within 4 weeks of the last workshop.  I felt that this has had a huge impact on my ability to produce quality work.\
\
Please note that the above feedback is reflective of my whole experience with MOL, rather than this module specifically.  The tutor was easy to work with, supportive and actually as flexible to learning styles as possible (within the limitations of the course structure). \
Glenda was great at adapting the sessions to ensure that we were able to get the most out of each workshop and at assisting us in our preparation for the assignments.\
\
\
\
Great module to do at the end of the course. It gives you chance to reflect on what you have learnt and what you how you plan to develop moving forward\
\
\
\
\
The two modules were interesting and the tutor delivered the course well. It is disappointing that the assignment results have not been made available within the committed timescale of 8 weeks. Students are pressured to submit assignments on time, therefore the grades should be available within the 8 week timeframe. \
\
I found the exam prep workshop particularly useful and  really made a difference and helped to ensure success at the exam\
\
\
Not sure I understand this survey as I have my tutor listed as Jane Hawkesworth but I had several tutors. Question About the tutor cannot be answered unless you're asking for an average of all tutors? Are you asking me to review one module in particular? if so then this survey is not valid. \
Definitely a better course one to one.  I feel I got more out of it that was specifically for me.\
\
I thoroughly enjoyed this course, excellent trainer and delicious lunch.  Will be able to save time and bring value by creating company graphics in house\
This course will save me time and our company money as I now have a  thorough understanding of how to use Photoshop Thoroughly enjoyed this course thank you very much.. \
Highly recommend Appetite for Business . This is the second course I have completed and both courses have been really useful and helpful.  The trainer Dave made the course enjoyable and explained things  and also gave some handy hints and tricks that I will be able to use both at work and at home.  I will be booking the next stage course for Word. \
\
\
\
\
\
Learned so much n such a short time \
\
\
\
\
Tailored course to what we were requiring.  Trainer managed to covered a wide range of topics in a timely manner with good knowledge on the subject matter.  Think the team that attended the course is more motivated to go and make Teams and Office 365 work.\
Good training course and presented well by Steve. Learnt a lot on the functionality of office 365 and it's apps.\
\
Very good. Didn\'82\'c4\'f4t expect that the basic stuff would be covered (I.e. MS word etc) however these areas were very interesting and learnt a lot.\
\
The course provided me with the information needed to start using excel better and get the most out of it. The course content was well presented, easy to follow and delivered very well. \
Will be recommending this course, I have learnt a lot that I didn't know before and I have learnt how do make things easier for my working day using excel.  Steve was an excellent trainer and explained things in an easy way.  \
I thoroughly enjoyed our Office 365 Training, having been a bit apprehensive before Steve came he immediately put me at ease and didn't take things too seriously throughout the course which really helped me enjoy it. He really engaged with the business and identified ways each part of the training would help us as a business team. I am really looking forward to teaching the other members of our team the valuable skills I have learned. \
Enjoyable course with clear instructions and easy to understand exercises  Useful to learn some handy tips.\
Time went by quicker than I thought and it was good to see different applications to what we might expect to use the software for - this might come in handy in other areas.\
I thoroughly enjoyed this course, thank you Dave was approachable, friendly and a really strong trainer who took onboard all my requirements of what I wished to gain from the course, Dave was very knowledgeable with Microsoft Project and I picked up a number of tips to use As it was one to one I was able to relate the course specifically to my every day work and then I have been able to carry out what I learnt today Highly recommend Appetite for Business and Dave for training requirements,  The facilities were great, lunch really nice, and enjoyed the day out of the office, Thanks :) \
being  new to Excel I found the course a real eyeopener and very informative I would be interested in a intermediate course\
The course was very informative and the trainer Dave made the course very easy with how he came over to us as a group.   Some of the things he went over I had already knew but he did go over aspects of pie charts and spark lines which were very useful\
Fab day and very informative\
\
The course and instructor were excellent, lots of great shortcuts and learned many things that will make my job so much easier\
Well presented by very knowledgeable tutor, good facilities and plenty nice sandwiches\
Good content. Additional user hints/tips very useful. \
One of the conditional formatting demos didn't work but otherwise found the course very beneficial.  Trainer was able to answer ad hoc queries and adapted delivery speed to capabilities in the room.\
Good content, in depth enough to allow an understanding of different areas but not too in depth on any particular subject. Opportunity to delve into any area of interest if required.\
This was a very good course, gave some very usable shortcuts & insights\
Great source of making better available use of excel. Not too much information and enough to take back that I will feel the benefit to it.\
Good content Would consider more intermediate than advanced and is difficult to pitch when lots of people use Excel all the time  Use of 'name ranges' would be a useful addition\
Really good presenter\
 found this bespoke course very practical. It was perfectly pitched for me...it was also enjoyable. Who knew Excel could be entertaining? :)\
Good course very informative and enjoyed the practical training\
Its a great course.  I would personally prefer a set of notes to go back to once back at work.\
\
I think the tips and tricks alone were useful. It has definitely been a worthwhile day.\
Would definitely recommend this course. Very helpful tips provided to make my work smarter.\
Very interesting content, useful examples given and was well explained by the trainer. Will be able to utilise the functions used in the session. \
very good course - well presented and was right level for me\
\
Excellent course.  Provided a nice overview of general tips and tricks before we got into the course.  Perfect level for me and all in the room who had varied experience. Learned lots and lots of new things - functions, pivot tables very useful.  Steve was excellent and would highly recommend.  Our company is attending a second course on this and I know this will be very useful.  Really enjoyed it!   The reason I said I wouldn't attend the advanced is no reflection on the course, I have just learned what I need for my job and I am no way advanced!\
Very well structured course which covered a lot of really useful material. Learned some great tips short cuts along the way. Very knowledgeable course instructor who led it at a good pace and he used good examples of where you would use what he taught us.  \
the trainer was very good in explaining the basics of Excel, the different types of functions contained in excel and a few decent shortcuts   a good course for users which have a basic knowledge of excel and want to get more out of it\
Course if great. Learned a great deal that I'm hoping to be able to use very soon.\
Very informative and useful training session.\
Good course well delivered at intermediate level. Potentially to wide a scope of program to cover all areas that are intermediate in a one hour session. Split out?\
\
Fab course and great teacher!  Learned a range of new information which will make my every day work life that little bit easier.\
good into, keen to develop more.  wish i knew about the move away from folder structures earlier, still unsure the best way to save attachments from emails into sharepoint.\
Course material and hand outs for future reference were really good. Course was delivered well by trainer who could react to questions and requests during the training to help individual requests and followed up with questions raised during the course. Future more advanced training will be considered once the staff have had time to work with and learn a little more about the new system.\
\
\
\
\
Thoroughly enjoyed the course and Dave was an excellent very helpful trainer.\
Nicely chunked and easy to follow\
The day went by really fast. Good training, nice trainer.\
\
Great to be able to start using 365 to it's full potential.  Notes and One Drive will make a great difference to me personally and my business.\
I really felt there were areas that I could start using immediately and I'm eager to get going with them.  Lots of features that will definitely help my business moving forward.\
Som interesting hints and tips but overall it was a simple overview that didnt quite meet the Advanced tag. Probably more suited to novice/beginner users.   \
\
Although this was the Basic level course, I did feel it maybe could have provided a little more. As users of other Microsoft products, you already know a lot of the basics. It would have been good to go a little further with the Visio course.\
A great course with an excellent presenter who created a perfect training environment.   The trainer was very knowledgeable about the subject matter and ensured that the pace of the course was just right (even with varying skill levels).\
\
Learnt a lot of shortcuts etc that will help. \
Very good course and some really good short cuts that are easy to remember and that i have already put into practice. Now to practice, practice practice. I would highly recommend the course and the trainer, the duration and content was pitched at the right level. \
I thought this was a really good course with some good short cuts. It will all be in the practice of it now, very worth while short course.\
\
VERY WELL GIVEN AND VERY PRATICAL\
\
Very informative. Content was very good and delivered excellently\
Very good trainer.  Good rapport with the group.  Excellent delivery of course content in a practical and easy to follow manner.  Good structured steps through the course.  I have already achieved an amazing 'clean-up' by creating folders, colour coding and setting rules, which have resulted in me reducing my out of control inbox from over 500 'unread' e-mails to 3 and my 'items' from over 5,000 to 38.  Thank you so much.\
Very good trainer who put everyone at their ease and delivered a lot of information in clear, structured steps which were easy to follow and remember.  Taking the time to demonstrate keyboard 'short-cuts' was an excellent ice-breaker and a great way to start the course.  Really enjoyed the course and feel confident about putting the information into practice.  \
\
Very interesting and helpful. All explained in clear and interesting way. Would totally recommend.\
\
Whilst I do not use Excel a lot, when I need to use it need to use it now, not faff around trying to figure out how to get it to do things.  Without using it regularly I know I will forget some of the course elements however having the course notes to look back through will be very useful. The only thing I would add is that it would be nice if the course notes were printed duplex (saving paper) and possibly ring-bound to save having to put them in a folder where the pages are more likely to tear.\
It was great! I know a lot of new shortcuts, tricks and features which is really helpful as I use Excel on daily basis. Thank you very much for informative and interesting session. Few hours of the training gone fast. I can totally recommend!\
The course was good. However i would class the course we did as more intermediate with the later part being advanced. The trainer was brilliant he was showing us short cuts we didnt know existed and that should be taught on the beginner course but it was not (that was with a different trainer a few years ago). Definatley learnt new things i think there should be a test at the end with everything that was covered to see what you can and cant do. There are things i learnt which i will not use as often so will maybe forget but i do have ntoes and there were training notes given at the end of the session I would have preferred to have these at the begining so we could use them as reference for activities completed on the course as a helping hand to complete the tasks i did not know how to do.\
\
As someone new  to computers I asked the tutor specifically for help and advice targeted to my limited requirements.He managed to put me at ease and was able to impart his knowledge in a very effective manner .Please pass on my thanks, Rob Mackenzie\
Again, another perfect course. All my requirements and needs were met. Some extremely helpful tips and tricks gained\
Fantastic facilities & services, location was also very easy to find. The course was very good and easy to follow.\
VERY  PLEASE WITH STEVES MANNER AND THE WAY THAT HE PUT THINGS ACCROSS TO US\
knew more than I first thought I would, next course could also be beneficial\
Really informative, explained well, and enjoyable course.\
\
\
\
All questions covered and plenty of helpful tips learnt. Steve is a great trainer with a great knowledge of the Microsoft packages. Very enjoyable course\
This is my second course with Steve and it was great. Very informative and brilliant with the course being one to one. I feel you get much more out of the courses this way, and can relate questions and queries back to your own work you wouldn't be able to do as part of a group session.  Excellent facilities, course content set at steady pace.  Would highly recommend - Thank you.\
As I have very rarely used Excel this has been a great insight into what it can be used for, definitely be putting this knowledge to use when I get back into the office.\
Found this course very helpful. Thank you\
Good course, covered good few topics, only recommendation would be more things to try or maybe a work book to take home to practice \
Picked up some good timesaving tips which I will use in future.\
Was really helpful to learn short cut tricks to make day to day life easier.\
very good and I've used some of the short cuts and tools already\
Really enjoyed the course, very helpful and definitely furthered my knowledge\
\
Thank you for your help, learnt lots of new shortcuts and useful tools.\
I found it very useful Steve was very understanding and helpful. I learned lots of shortcuts that I can use in my daily use of excel.  I look forward to getting the books so I keep up to date\
Well presented course which found useful and beneficial.\
Lots of very handy tips\
I appreciate that it is actually more coding than just Word however I was a bit disappointed in the Macro section as I thought this might be a bit more in-depth.  We have had occasion to use this since the course and though we did eventually work out our problem I'm not sure I could create one from scratch.  \
Awesome course \'82\'c4\'ec customised and delivered in-house to suit our teams availability.  Very relaxed style of delivery/learning - my shortcut toolbox is now overflowing and it\'82\'c4\'f4s very satisfying applying what we have learnt.  Why work harder, when you can work smarter #appetiteformore (F4, F4, F4 ;o).\
\
Within the first 5 minutes of the course I learned something new and I realised just how inefficient I have been using PowerPoint previously.  Working in admin I will usually create PowerPoint as opposed to present.  Now I can have much better time management when doing this.\
No handouts or files to save, but many  useful ideas were presented.  The trainer had ready answers to questions and knows his stuff.\
Excellent, the course provided me with many opportunities for improved efficiencies and I learned a great deal more than I thought I needed to know!\
Even though I am very proficient in a self-taught way, I picked up quite a few tricks. Steve also ventured outside of PowerPoint to show us a trick using the snipping tool which can come in extremely handy when preparing presentation content.\
\
I attended for a short period only (to cover one area of the course) but when joining slightly ahead of time realised that my knowledge could have been bettered by joining earlier.  Really helpful and demonstrative trainer.\
Fantastic course, very relevant information that is used daily in my role. Hints and tips were great. Most defiantly will save me at least an hour a day, possibly more at month end. Course tutor Steve was enthusiastic and easy to listen to as well as get involved in discussion. Look forward to joining the next course in time. \
This was a beneficial course and I would recommend it to anyone wanting to further their knowledge in excel \
Very well presented and at a good pace, found worthwhile taking the time to work through each example along with Steve. Took a lot out of the course that I will be able to use in normal working environment. Would definitely recommend.\
A lot of materials/short cuts I never knew existed. Hard to absorb all the info in one session so the notes will be useful for future reference\
\
The course was very useful\
A lot of useful tips and short cuts as well as some new functionality.\
Very knowledgeable and well organised course. Very good at keeping the class engaged during the course.\
We received really helpful advice from Steve regarding internal systems and also Microsoft Word and Excel. I found the session interactive and engaging and will definitely use the tips learnt today going forward in my career. Thank you!\
\
I thought the course was really helpful especially on Microsoft Word and Excel.\
\
Excellent course, lots of tips given\
Excellent.  Only comment would be that where it is a single department, they may have similar issues and a 'pre-meet' or enquiry to focus on key issues ahead of time may be worth while. We did have such an issue and whilst instructor was happy to held (and did ask) at the meeting, we could have perhaps invested more time / got a conclusion if we had the issue been discussed / outlined ahead of the day of the course.\
Trainer was really patient, helpful and knowledgeable. He was also fun and very enthusiastic about the subject which made me feel very engaged.  would totally recommend this company.\
Training was fantastic, the right amount of fun/professionalism.  I really couldn't fault the course at all.  It was very useful and I would really like to do the next level up to learn even more.\
There isn't anything I could honestly say to fault the  training  a first class experience. Thank you so much! I've learnt loads.\
Excellent course, the tutor was very friendly and worked at a pace that suited everyone. He also involved the whole class which made everyone feel welcome.\
\
Content of the course was really good. Just the right information that's needed in the course of our business/job\
Really enjoyed the course, learnt a lot.  Will recommend.\
The course was very useful, material was good and given me a lot of things to take away.\
Excellent course, trainer tailored the course nicely to our needs.  Very well understood & explained clearly. \
Very informative course which covered the expectation but also specific role questions\
Very interesting course, very useful handy hints and shortcuts too :) \
I really enjoyed the course and felt there were really helpful tips.  As I don't use Word as often as others I think I may benefit from the basic tips.  I wish I had known some of them a couple of weeks ago when I had to write a document.  \
Excellent delivery of course and some amazing time saving handy hints! Thank you for an easy to follow, informative course. Looking forward to part 2 where we can test some of our working examples! Suzanne\
Really good hints and tips picked up over the two sessions \
I went in with an idea of what I needed to get of Excel that would help me with my daily spreadsheets, and I feel like I came out with that information and some other useful tips that I wasn't aware of previously.\
\
\
Really helpful training for the daily business to save time and get the best result in my work.\
Formulas and charts are the most useful thing I learned today.\
Great overview of formulas and functions.\
IF functions will come in very handy for my reports\
Finally got to grips with Pivot Tables\
Good course but perhaps there should be more time for more topics.\
The formulas and filtering sections of the course were really helpful.\
Great introduction for how to create charts.\
Very happy with this course.  I will definitely be recommending this course to my colleagues\
The most useful topic for me was the use of the VLOOKUP function.\
The course was great due to the teacher. He taught at a pace that everyone felt comfortable with and he made the course enjoyable. Learnt a great deal today including some amazing time saving tips!\
Finding out how to link spreadsheets the correct way will help with many of my tasks.\
An extremely enjoyable and worthwhile day. Thank you so much!\
Very useful course!\
Very useful to learn how and where to use VLOOKUP and IF formulas.\
the whole session was excellent - I have learnt so much and this will really support me at work \
A very useful course - it was all relevant as I had a very limited knowledge of Excel.\
Excellent learning experience and the trainer shared lots of really useful ways to do things in less time.\
Good to consolidate my knowledge and lots of useful tips for the future.\
\
\
Fantastic training session, really enjoyed. Highly recommend.\
\
Lots covered in a short space of time.\
Lots of useful shortcuts shared, great trainer, totally recommend.\
\
Trainers knowledge was superb and he was very enthusiastic.  Lots of tips shared. \
Great knowledge, was paced just right and the trainer was very patient and helpful, would recommend.\
\
\
\
Pitched perfect as an introduction to macros.  Well explained with an opportunity to practice.  \
Thanks a lot for nice training, would totally recommend\
It was a fantastic introduction to Charts.  I do use charts so my knowledge was probably already slightly above the level of the course content but there were still new things I learned and I have a better understanding on what graphs to use and when.\
I have given a 4 instead of a 5 as awaiting guides.  It would be useful to have the guides upfront so as to lessen the need to take notes.  Some content missed as taking notes.\
 I have given a 4 instead of a 5 as awaiting guides.  It would be useful to have the guides upfront so as to lessen the need to take notes.  Some content missed as taking notes.\
It was good that we were given excel examples to work on that we could save for review later.  I have given a 4 instead of a 5 as awaiting guides.  It would be useful to have the guides upfront so as to lessen the need to take notes.  Some content missed as taking notes.\
It was good that we were given excel examples to work on that we could save for review later.  I have given a 4 instead of a 5 as awaiting guides.  It would be useful to have the guides upfront so as to lessen the need to take notes.  Some content missed as taking notes.\
Appetite's approach is very engaging and flexible. I was worried about my lack of IT skills but I was put at ease right away. Excellent introductory session, built my confidence and encouraged me to develop further. Looking forward to the next session\
Different types of charts well explained and now much more confident in using them.\
Another good course well presented.\
\
\
Good trainer and content explained well\
\
\
Very instructive course. I learned a lot of short-cuts that will help me improve the spreadsheets I work with.\
fast paced, packed with useful tips, highly recommend to everyday excel users\
Gained new insights into how charts can be useful, and how to use charts of various kinds; what they might be best suited for.  Hoping to find out how to make a chart 'grow' automatically, with each new line of data added to the spreadsheet.\
Thanks for the shortcut tips and hints at working with Word.  I gained some useful insights.\
I have never done much with pivot tables because I never understood their usefulness.  This was a good introduction to them.  I learned some new Excel tricks.  Thanks much for a good course.\
\
\
\
The structure of the course worked extremely well for the short time that was allocated to this topic - demo & questions followed by a quick excercise. This was a very useful introduction to macros.\
The course was well structured, and the trainer managed to incorporate attendee questions flexibly. The exercise file was a very useful practice. It would have been nice to have course notes available, but the trainer said he'll provide them later.\
overall a very useful course\
Very useful introduction on how to use macros. Step by step guide and the trainer provided excellent responses to the questions asked.\
Very useful introduction on how to use macros. Step by step guide and the trainer provided excellent responses to the questions asked.\
\
Excellent run through of document creating and formatting. Useful hands on training with you able to work through the steps on your own laptop while following the trainer on the projector.\
Quite a short space of time, lots of information to remember, could of been better maybe to practice what was taught at the same time as trainer was speaking Overall good course Still would recommended to others\
Thanks again for the shortcuts in creating & editing Word docs\
good info on functions and the shortcut keys and formulas\
Would recommend this course, lots of useful information, trainer well prepared\
will need to practise!\
lots of good info on how to do lots for tables and formatting and setting up new documents and copying between documents\
\
Utilise the skills in my own Outlook, and use the knowledge gained to assist my customers more effectively. Great atmosphere and very informative, great job! \
The training has made it easy for me to understand how to organise outlook. Great training and easy to follow and understand, would definitely come back to do more courses. I work in IT and learnt loads.\
This course will help me to improve my admin time making me more effective - working towards inbox zero! Individual attention was provided when required.  Excellent training thank you.\
This will enable me to advance my reporting skills within the workplace and also make my daily job easier and less time consuming. A saving of at least 4 hours a week. Intimate learning which was tailored to my needs. This is the second time I have attend a course at Appetite and the service and learning skills provided are excellent and make me feel confident in progression. Thanks again!\
Friendly and informative class. Looking forward to putting into practice what I have learnt.\
Excellent training and facility. Delegates well looked after.\
it was very relevant to what we do & how we would use it. Well ran course & knowledgeable teacher\
Very job specific and aimed towards my needs, trainer was open to hearing what we wanted to learn and adapting the course accordingly.  All objectives ticked. Thanks for an ace course.\
In addition, learnt lots of helpful tips along the way for every day use. It was great and I learnt so much and was  very interactive. Great training and lovely lunch. Looking forward to implementing what I have learnt today. Thank you.\
Everything was spot on. Loved being shown how do use the computer more rather than just the mouse. Learnt cool little ways of doing things which I didn't know how to do which makes using the computer easier. I found it really interesting and thought it would be boring but in fact enjoyed every minute of it. \
All objectives were generally met, \'ac\'86although less time on some formulas may have been better as I'm not always required to do formulas. Was able to find out what I needed also a few extra bits - never knew how to do the conditional formatting before as well as using freeze pains. \
The course is formative and structured but also flexible to the requirements of individual needs. The trainer was very relaxed and patient, always willing to answer any questions and take time to explain things. Excellent delivery - one of the better courses I have been on.\
I found all info extremely interesting and can see ways to put into use to make excel work better for me. All learning objectives were achieved. \
\
Very good lots of useful informations :)\
Very helpful instructions & handy shortcuts. Hope to use them from now on.  Thank you so much\
Excellent! Useful ways of working smarter!\
lots of shortcuts and handy tips\
Excellent course to make life easier while working with Word\
All objectives reached.  Trainer ensured all attendees needs were met equally. Training was delivered to our personal needs which was fantastic.\
Very enjoyable course, was very specific to my requirements.\
 Professional and knowledgeable, sharing ideas on what could work for me. It was an awesome session, really consultative.  The expertise was invaluable in ensuring we got the right outcomes for the business I felt supported and we have come away with some key action points to really drive our business forward. I would certainly recommend Appetite  to any SME business requiring expert advice and practical support for use of Office 365 technology. \
Good clear commentary and easy to follow.\
Very enthusiastic trainer, with lots of helpful tips that will benefit us greatly. \
Great course, gave a lot of tips on stuff I had no idea about.  \
It was great - Cant wait to  put it into practice\
Good course, well presented - clear and concise information given.\
\
An excellent learning experience I've received over last 4 days thanks Nick \
Completely believe in the training and looking forward to delivering training.\
All five star - looking forward to delivering this and making a difference.\
\
A really worthwhile day. Thank you Nick! \
Very good instructor knew the materials well\
A really worthwhile day. Thank you Nick! \
Thank you! \
\
\
\
\
\
\
The course was very well explained and nick barnes showed depth in sharing. Could have been more experiential and perhaps some more examples could have been explained \
\
\
I loved how this was planned. Very simple yet great pace.   Maybe we need to learn what to do next as well \
\
Loved the way the training format and content was put out, it was easy for a psychologist as well as a teenager to really understand the topic from the scratch. \
\
\
\
Content was really good\
\
\
Great job!\
\
\
This course has changed my own perception on suicide. I feel have come away with a better understanding.  I am going to discuss this with family and friends to enable then to have a better understanding \
When I am Duty Manager I will now feel confident about dealing with incidents associated with suicide\
It was very informative and thought provoking \
\
\
The course is long with long breaks but I do understand the need for these \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The course felt like for people to get a basic understanding and some knowledge of suicide first aid.  Though I  have previously attended ASIST course, this was powerful and more insightful. I felt this Suicide First Aid course was a taster course for the City & Guilds Course level 4 being offered, theory based, which is valued by many learners.  It felt a bit NLP mixed with a dash of ASIST.  \
\
\
Steve has this amazing way of drawing me in to whatever it is he\'82\'c4\'f4s speaking about. He is able to deliver on every level \
A very intense course, but made accessible to the students. Challenging the way you think and advocating confidance in being able to provide support to those who need it.\
Well done Steve. Great course well delivered, thank you\
Excellent\
\
\
Thank you, really informative :) \
\
Really engaging tutors who knew what they were talking about  Thankyou is \
Like the fact that there are the useful contacts on the back.well done.\
\
\
Thank you\
\
\
\
Liz the tutor was really good. Nick wha also facilitated was good when he was talking. However it was most disconcerting that while Liz was talking he appeared to sleep through most of it. It is possible that he has some medical condition or other reason - it would then have been better if this had been explained\
Very informative and liked the informal style\
This training should be statutory\
\
Overall excellent and now feel far more confident and aware\
\
\
\
\
Overall a brilliant course that is hugely worthwhile and valuable. Nick was late which meant he had to work hard to gain the group and build rapport. This improved massively over the course of the day and in the end I thoroughly enjoyed and benefited from Nicks knowledge and obvious passion for the subject. \
I know I would approach anyone I was concerned about after attending today\'82\'c4\'f4s workshop. The alternative is no longer an option. \
\
Thoroughly enjoyable and would recommend\
\
\
Very good course\
Booklet was very useful, good to have something to take away.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very useful day, thought provoking and indpiring\
Really enjoyed !  Statistics were interesting and good know . \
Probably one of the best training days I\'82\'c4\'f4ve attended so far, kept me thoroughly engaged throughout and learnt a lot! Feel a lot more passionate about suicide prevention and a lot more confident to have conversations about it, it really normalised the topic and how it can affect anyone which was great\
\
It was a full on day, though I don\'82\'c4\'f4t think making the course longer or spilt over 2 days is nescessary, maybe a more relaxed venue would help.\
\
The course re-instilled my confidence and ability to do my best when keeping young people safe.  The course also reminded me about using my skills and abilities and the importance to go at the young persons pace, not just tick a box to complete a safety plan \
\
Great course which i recommend to everyone working in the health care profession and even for individuals so they're aware of suicide\
Great knowledgeable trainers, caring and made me feel comfortable about asking questions.\
Thank you for your help today and sharing your learning \
\
why is 'convenience of the training schedule' repeated in the questions 'About the Course' ?\
Really interesting course, making a complex subject as simple and structured as it can be. Thank you.\
Really powerful and thought-provoking\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Essential training for NHS.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Anita is a great trainer and brought to life the course content in a simple and memorable way\
Excellent course. I would recommend it for all managers and supervisors \
Great course, highly recommend it\
\
Generally really pleased with the training, really useful\
\
Would be great to run events with all managers \
\
\
\
Very good training...would love to hear if other organisations using this training\
Watching the video before lunch made it hard to remember it in such fine detail when we reconvened.   \
\
Really useful and hope to do the accredited qualification \
\
N/a\
Thank you!\
Really well put together and delivered. Would highly recommend - well done\
My first thoughts before i came i thoughtbin was going to be very morbid and depressing quite the oppisite considering the subject \
Well run informative course\
\
\
\
The first bit was very logical so we could've gone over it faster then spent more time doing role play\
Excellent course \
\
\
The usefulness and accessibility of the training material and the necessary matter of fact style in which it was delivered\
An excellent course\
Excellent Couse delivered by a very sincere passionate and engaging trainer.\
\
I enjoyed the course and learned a lot about suicide first aid and feel more confident in dealing with this subject. Jamie is a superb trainer.\
\
I found some of the content quiet difficult especially the role plays and asking about suicidal thoughts in front of the group. \
An excellent course which was very informative & easy to go through. Made a tough subject easier\
One of the best courses I have attended and I have been in and around training for a long time. Mire participation might have been good but given the numbers and the one day duration what we did was ok\
\
\
Thank you Jaime for making a very serious topic  \'82\'c4\'faenjoyable \'82\'c4\'fa informative and interesting \
Really enjoyed it and found it very useful. \
Informative and well presented\
Fantastic course will most certaonly recommend to colleagues\
It has been really good and the videos really helped to put things into perspective. Really liked the instructors and the way they conveyed the material.\
\
I think there could be more practical / local advice... if this happens you do xyz and what my responsibilities would be\
Thank you for opening my eyes and making me feel comfortable when discussing suicide.\
\
\
\
\
Great all round\
\
\
I'd recommend that even if they're running over that the afternoon break of at least 15 minutes is maintained. It's at this point that most had info overload and needed to get fresh air or properly stretch their legs (post lunch slump).\
Looking forward to going on to level 4\
Good course with practical guidance on a difficult subject. \
The tutor ran the course in an professional manner and I appreciated he talk about safety and how in important that was. I would fully recommend the course to others. \
\
Brilliant\
I want to work for suicide prevention based solely on this court\
Good course \
\
\
Really informative and enjoyable considering the subject\
\
\
\
\
Good pace and content \
A bit more time to understand future safety.\
\
An excellent course - I now feel  equipt with how to go about helping someone thinking of suicide  - thank you!\
Thank you for giving me the chance to attend this course. I am taking away an understanding and valuable tools on this subject matter.\
thank you, this was a helpful and practical course.\
Great course. I think as someone not trained in counselling maybe longer course needed in how to conduct conversations but it was only running out of time that did not allow this. \
Relevant and informative training. \
\
Good content. Not waffly. \
Thoroughly enjoyed the whole work shop, found it intelligently and sympathetically delivered especially regarding the subject. Has had a profound and positive impact both professionally and personally on my understanding of the subject and encouraged my confidence. \
This was a long day, in respect of content and how this will inform our work however was an enjoyable and challenging course.\
A really good way of delivering a course, a good tutor and student interaction, with a degree of paired interaction.\
I have really enjoyed today, raised some issues of my own. Feel confident that I have dealt well with past encounters with suicidal people.\
Phone signal terrible, had to check in with work on my breaks. Wi fi code needs displaying clearly around the toom\
Excellent- thank you so much \uc0\u63743 \'fc\'f2\'e4 \
\
Excellent training. Very useful.\
It was an emotional subject And liked the content. However towards the end I felt it was rushed especially as the speaker mentioned we can\'82\'c4\'f4t try this and can\'82\'c4\'f4t do that as we don\'82\'c4\'f4t have time. That was a shame to me. \
Enormous thanks to and admiration for Fiona Aldred.  A few years ago I could never have imagined the need to attend such a course but I feel better equipped after a couple of hours listening to Fiona's advice and first hand experience.\
\
\
\
\
Thank you for for this afternoon!\
Very useful and relevant to my life with my teenage son at the moment!\
\
Access to online notes/ slides would be useful\
\
\
Very good. Felt \'82\'c4\'fain safe hands\'82\'c4\'f9\
\
Great course. Many thanks for creating such a safe space to learn. \
Would highly recommend. Want to deliver excellence as I have received. Thank you all for your hard work and pouring out to us all week, I feel enriched by the learning and experience. Thank you for reuniting my passion and making me want to go and improve practice. \
\
I\'82\'c4\'f4ve loved the last 4 days. It\'82\'c4\'f4s been mentally challenging and draining, but I\'82\'c4\'f4m looking forward to cracking on with day 5. \
\
\
Just brilliant. I am so fortunate to have been on this course\
A 9.30 start would be welcome as Aylesbury notorious for rush hour jams and some of us are coming quite a distance.\
I loved the layout. I loved having it delivered on the first day to challenge attitudes and move away from pure professional role thinking. The stats were memorable are relevant. It helped me think how I can impact my local community. It kept to first aid and didn't go off on tangents. Kept attention throughout and revived my passion for the subject. \
Great course! \
I found the video a little confusing. Also the sound for the video was tricky. Subtitles would be useful for people who are hard of hearing. \
\
\
\
I think the course could run until 1700. That would enable discussion and the wash-up too.  \
\
Really enjoyed it, wasn\'82\'c4\'f4t sure if it would be too heavy. A lot of it I already knew but always good to refresh and share knowledge. I will be doing the instructor course \uc0\u63743 \'fc\'f2\'c9\
\
\
\
\
\
The course was brilliant but quite full on. \
Great course and contents the only course I would like to do al over again so informative\
\
Enjoyed the training \
Everyone should have access to this course, a lot of lives could be saved.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Thank you. Wonderful course\
\
\
\
Was an excellent workshop and I come away with feeling much more confident within this subject. \
One of the best courses I have ever been on.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent training session which has made me feel super confident when presented with a situation like this\
\
\
\
Thank you. \
\
Thank you.  Great to have the option of accreditation too. \
\
\
\
Really useful training, I feel a lot more knowledge on the subject.  This training should be made mandatory for many organisations.\
\
Thanks so much\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Thank you ; an excellent course.\
\
\
Thanks for a great training. It was really helpful. \
\
Very helpful - thank you \
Very good course \
Very sensitively given course with huge regard for the subject and for our well being \
\
\
Excellent course\
\
\
\
\
Thank you for the brilliant course. Very insightful and informative. \
\
\
\
A real eye opener. There were a few moments of realisation.\
Thank you for shining a light on this subject as it needs to be better understand. \
\
\
\
\
Very interesting \
Thank you \
Although brilliant for the designated purpose feel that organisations that contract SFA for the first time should consider two day given the content. \
\
\
\
\
very good day \
\
Thank you very much for sharing your knowledge \
\
Would have liked to touch on capacity and additional needs more than we did\
A really good Day thouroughly enjoyed. Given me confidence in my ability to support young people around suicide\
\
\
Overall a ver well presented course with useful and interesting resources \
\
Would recommend this course to others\
Such a helpful course.  I feel more confident in my day to day practice \
Could have been condensed into a shorter period of time.\
\
Shorter lunch break, earlier finish\
Excellent training \
\
I would like to do more training courses like this.\
Facilities could have been warmer\
Very good day, \
\
\
\
\
Good introduction to MS Projects with an informative trainer (Leanne Hepburn)\
\
\
\
Good structured course - clearly & concisely put across \
Great starter course, well worth the day.\
The course content was good. Although there were areas that may not apply to our organisation, having our eyes opened to all aspects of the basics was worthwhile to allow that decision of what will be useful and what will not. It is evident that further training will be required to achieve the overall goal of our organisation using Microsoft Project. Perhaps the higher level courses can be tailored to our needs.\
Query whether on-site training of SharePoint is way to go, given few comments made by trainers?\
Whilst I appreciate the training was somewhat restricted by access rights/permission issues (which, for me, should have been clarified & checked in advance), I felt the course was somewhat unstructured and no real understanding of what the actual requirements of the individuals in the room required nor what the outline infrastructure of the company was in regards to SPS usage. Information was requested, and provided beforehand, but never seemed to be referenced or touched upon. Ultimately did not get any real benefit from the course other than a general reminder/refresher of existing understanding of SPS\
The course could have benefitted from being more structured and condensed \'82\'c4\'ec I feel I didn\'82\'c4\'f4t take away much from the course even though it was 2 full days of training. Due to the IT/access difficulties, we weren\'82\'c4\'f4t able to work through a few of the modules that were supposed to take a few hours to go through - however all IT/access should have been granted and if they weren't granted the trainers should have prepared another way to teach the module.  It seemed as if both trainers weren\'82\'c4\'f4t 100% confident using SharePoint and it would have been more useful if we worked through the workbook in more detail instead of having an overview.  The assistant trainer could have been more proactive with the delegates, ie asking delegates how they would work through each section instead of pointing where to go, it seemed as if she wasn\'82\'c4\'f4t very interested in the topic as she sat on LinkedIn or FaceBook for one of the days. The assistant trainer should have supported the trainer and been more hands on with the delegates. \
The training ladies were lovely but unfortunately the course had the wrong audience, this may have been relatively suitable for brand new users to SharePoint however I would provide this training myself.\
\
\
\
\
Although I have been trained by Philippa previously there were still a couple of shortcut tricks I learned.\
\
\
I thought teaching this subject matter was going to be rather challenging however, Philippa was extremely professional and clear in her way of teaching.  I was dubious to how many new skills I would pick up if I'm being honest, and I was very surprised and just how much I actually didn't know!  Thank you :-)\
Philippa was very patient with us all, helped us with any questions we posed along the way which weren't in the timetable.  Our time ran over slightly and we didn't cover everything but I still feel the most important topics were covered.\
none\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very good introductory course, content explained well and covered all the points where I have struggled to understand how projects works.  Hope to use these when building projects int he future.\
There were a few areas where the IF formulas didn't appear to work which was confusing. Time seemed to run away a bit too which meant the last section was sadly a bit more rushed than is ideal. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
I found the themes part of the course useful as I didn't really know much about that area.  I was quite familiar with templates and forms so didn't learn so many new things in relation to these areas. \
\
I really enjoyed the course.  Phillippa made me feel at ease and explained the course content very well.  The next day I managed to produce my first schedule based on the information and the course content that I was given to take back and refer too.  I will be looking to attend the intermediate course in the near future.\
\
\
Although I've been using Word for many years, and the topics are not new to me, nevertheless Phillipa was able to show me better ways of doing some things and some tips that I didn't know. Very useful, thanks!\
\
\
Good course , pitched at the right level \
\
Great course, just needed a little longer, with the tutor, as some of us are slower than others on the info being handed out,\
Really helpful, not patronising and well explained.  Thank you!\
\
Course was delivered in a friendly professional manner and a willingness to cover all aspects numerous times until everyone was comfortable with the subject.\
\
By attending the course I discovered that my knowledge of Excel was better than I thought so I was already familiar with a lot of the course content. Useful revision and consolidation. However, I did learn new things about Excel which were very helpful and it increased my understanding of how spreadsheets that I use are set up. \
The course was set at a good level for our needs. The only feedback I have is that I would have liked more exercises for us to work on during the training. However, I appreciate that it was only a half-day course and we do have the materials to allow for us to try these on our own.\
Thoroughly enjoyed my training, Excellent - highly recommend! \
Really enjoyed the training.  Benefitted from a small group because Phillipa could give us all attention when trying stuff out and had time to explain something again if we (mainly me!) didn't understand. \
objectives not met\
The course achieved the objectives laid out on page 1 of the course booklet but it was a very basic-level general introduction to SharePoint which did not match how SharePoint is used at TAQA. The course leader did not seem able to adapt the course when participants raised concerns about the content and level during the session . The technology wasn't working very well and there was a problem going between the classic set-up and new set-up within SharePoint. \
Unfortunately, I feel that this course was delivered on a much more basic level than expected.  It was poor in structure and content.  This was despite showing the instructor our sites before the course, and explaining how we already used metadata, libraries and lists.  It became clear early on that the instructor's knowledge of SharePoint was at a considerably lower level than our group required.  I would not recommend this course as it was essentially a slow walk-through of basic SharePoint functionality.\
I unfortunately don't feel I benefited from attending the course. We learnt about things I will not need to know or do in my day to day job. It would've been better if, before starting, we were asked exactly which topics we would like to cover, and to go round the table and ask each attendee what their current level of understanding is in relation to SharePoint. This would give the trainer a better idea of exactly what we needed to know, and what we didn't.              It also didn't help using a version of SharePoint different from TAQA's. I think the trainer should've been given access to our own SharePoint sites, or have at least provided an example of a completed site, then shown us how it was created and how it can be modified.             This was a very general simplistic overview of SharePoint, and it didn't add to what was already covered in the manual. Perhaps there was a miscommunication or misunderstanding at the stage of booking the course about the level of course we'd require (ie a more advanced course covering aspects of development etc).\
This course was very poor, both in content / structure and instructor delivery. Stabbing about in the Office 365 Nicholson site was unstructured and irrelevant to TAQA needs. Not made clear what does what with the programme. Presenter's screen was never the same as the attendees were working with. Mostly being shown apps and features we do not have enabled and would not use. No attempt to show the application as applicable to TAQA. No appropriate worked example was used, i.e. teaching how to put pictures and maps on a page.\
Overall - fantastic course that has dramatically enhanced my knowledge, skills and understanding of Digital Marketing. Great team and good to make contacts with other professionals in interesting and similar fields.  Just a few negative points however that I feel are important to raise:   Facilities - room at the Inverness Chamber of Commerce was very warm, lots of noise from the High Street (buskers etc), was far too small with no break out area.  There were quite a few slides with information that was out of date or was questionable which the trainees raised and discussed. There was some confusion on what to answer in the exam should a question's answer be out of date in the syllabus but different today. ie Can you set up a business page on Instagram- 2016 syllabus says no but actually in 2017 you now can.   Whilst it is appreciated that there is a lot of information to cover in one week, the slides were quite bland, lots of bullet points which lost my attention sometime. Some of the slides handouts (that were emailed) were also not the same as what was showed on the projector sometimes.   Highly rate Rene's enthusiasm and extensive knowledge on social media marketing. His delivery was fantastic and had so many useful tips and suggestions for tools etc - only down side is he ran out of time quite a lot and missed quite a few points from the slides that might be included the exam. But hopefully we can capture these points from the revision materials and exercises.   Philippa and Lee Anne delivered the necessary information and covered all important points with some real life examples. They were very good. I feel I would have benefited way more if the facilitators/lecturers were actual digital marketers. However, the links to the online lectures may make up for this.     \
A digital marketing course needs to be up to date, and in every module there were items which were out of date, particularly statistics, which was disappointing and sometimes confusing. Luckily the trainers were all excellent and brought a lot of relevant knowledge to the course, and were able to fill in the gaps. Everyone on the course felt they got a lot out of being in a group situation, we al learnt from each other and there were many useful and interesting discussions. \
Lee Anne Hepburn was excellent: I explained what I wanted to achieve, if possible, in our session, and she was able to guide me through, also anticipating other aspects which would assist me. All this was achieved with a professional, friendly manner. I will recommend your sessions.  \
I think we went over too much that we had already done on the basics course and that time could have been better spent \
\
The course exceeded expectations for me, I hadn't anticipated learning quite so many new things that would specifically relate to my own website .\
\
The course provided excellent coverage of a vast range of advanced materials which can be put into practical application straight away. I am keen to develop on these skills further.\
\
Found the course really informative, useful & helpful. Was the right amount of content.  Didn't feel like it was information overload.  Went at the right pace.  Trainer was easy to understand, helpful & great to listen to.\
\
Very good course, even learned things on the intermediate course that i wasn't aware of\
Excellent course.  Phillipa was an excellent trainer and very keen that the course would have practical application in our daily working life.\
the workbook will provide a great reference point for when I come to carrying out tasks that I perhaps don't do very often.  I found that the exercises within the workbook were very helpful as putting my new knowledge into practice helps me to remember it.\
\
I thought the course was excellent and the trainer was very knowledgeable and made what could have potentially have been a very dull subject quite exciting\
\
I have only rated course content slightly lower because I felt a lot of the content wasn't appropriate to my own skill level.\
\
\
This is the second course I have taken with Nicholson Solutions and I would not hesitate to book with them again in the future. Philippa was able to work 'off script' and provide training and help on business specific aspects of MS Project not detailed within the standard course materials.\
\
Understanding the course materials was made easier by being able to put into context current work requirements.  \
Philippa, Thank you for the course yesterday.  The primary objective of getting everyone onboard to commit to MS Project has been achieved.  I do think my controls and monitoring group - me, Caitlin, Matthew and Nic will require more training once we get the licenses sorted and how best to set up the master and resource pool, create standard EMEC reporting etc...I hope to have the licenses sorted by April and maybe we can get together again for some more training in May/June?\
\
This was a very worthwhile Course to Take, Having ' Dabbled'  in Microsoft Project for a couple of Years, this course explained, the Correct way to Set up a Project from the Beginning, which then lead on to the Building of the Project Schedule being more Meaningful and more benefit to our Customers\
would be an advantage if course was more tailor made to our requirements. \
\
\
Very good course. Lee Anne was very patient and explained things clearly. \
\
Given me a better understanding of MPP capabilities and how to run a project in project opposed to highlighting timelines only.\
Was a useful course and with the notes provided will help expand my knowledge of the excel subjects covered.\
I found the course a little dis-jointed, some of the exersices didn't seem to work and  didn't have a good flow from one step to the next. However the teacher was very nice and took time to listen and answer questions and was very helpful. I did learn a few thing I didn't already know and have a better understanding of Excel but don't think I got exactly what I needed but this maybe down to the course picked by our company rather than the course itself due to there being varying levels of Excel users within our group\
\
A good course teaching some useful techniques for Excel. Trainer responded well to specific questions asked although some areas were explained more clearly than others.\
Found it very helpful - also appreciated how Phillippa tailored the course to suit our needs.\
Philippa was an engaged and well-informed teacher who by and large managed to answer questions as they arose whilst ensuring this didn't disrupt the pace of the course.  Anything not answered was noted down (mostly obscure things, not core course stuff) and answered the next day.  There was a lot of information to pack into the bootcamp and even just absorbing the information was quite tiring. However, the class was lively and students contributed throughout ,so this helped embed learning. Bootcamp option was still the best for me, because had I attempted to do the online classes after work I would have been too tired/stressed to take anything in.  The course works and is a great way for busy people to hit the ground running with digital marketing-you can follow up with the practicals later and study for the exam, but the core information has been delivered face to face, which is better than distance learning for me.  If there was a chance to condense some of the information in the modules (provided it is read later by students) and to use this space for a few practicals in class, this would be valuable. I wonder if students could read the introductory module prior to the course, for example, and the time this frees up could be used for a couple of practicals throughout the week? \
I really enjoyed the course and certainly found it valuable for my current job. I particularly benefited from the SEO, PPC, Google Analytics, Mobile Marketing and Display Marketing modules.\
Very good course, felt very easy and fluid. Lee Anne was very good and very clear and helpful.\
\
Maybe its an issue with my browser but i can't fill in a number for 0-10 above or answer the question below.\
\
Enjoyed the course and picked up loads of learning / tips; which will help in the long term. Some of the content was a bit over my head / not relevant - but it was always going to be impossible to deliver training for a group of people at differing stages\
Enjoyed the training and got what I needed from it.  I would have liked more opportunity to practice the new skills on my own material after experiencing on the materials given.  This would have embedded the new skills better.\
The course was very well designed to take into account the different skill level of the participants. I found that a lot of the morning content was a refresher for me and the main points where I learnt the most was in the afternoon with graphs and pivot tables. The course materials are easy to follow and well presented. I probably would have liked more time to complete more of the exercises during the day, but time pressures didn't allow for this. Philippa is an excellent trainer - she is friendly, relaxed and helpful. I appreciate that she said we can contact her at another time if we are stuck trying to do something.\
\
I personally would have like a more thorough handout fo the session. The handout did cover the basics but it would have been nice to have the handout a little more in depth to cover all the techniques we prcatise. This would serve as a point of refrence for all the items learned on the day. As so much is covered there is bound to be things forgotten and I personally think the handout is too generic.  Overall a very well presented and detailed training course which porovided me with the basic skill to start using Access 2010.\
\
The training I attended with Nicholson Solutions covered all aspects of Microsoft Project. My aim was to leave the course with enough knowledge to pick up my new role as a workshop planner in an engineering environment. During the course of the training I was taught how to create and amend plans for individual projects, linking each task and assigning resources, in addition to being shown how to pull this together on to one overall plan, produce a report and highlight any deviations from the baseline. Nicholson Solutions offered to tailor this course for me to suit my needs. They encouraged me to bring in my own draft plans to work with and were able to offer advice and guidance as to how to improve them. I would highly recommend this course.\
Course was delivered really well, great to be able to have our own computer to follow along with on top of course booklets.  \
Taught everything at a great pace and explained everything thoroughly.\
\
Philippa certainly knows the subject matter and delivers it in a very friendly and easy manner, and is open to questions.\
overall satisfactory \
\
Overall a great course  which has enhanced my existing knowledge and experience of Marketing into the world of Digital Marketing.  There is a lot to cover in the 5 days but I feel this is due to each module containing overlapping content causing some repetition.  The extra support material provided and practical exercises are a great addition to help implement and expand on what you learn during the course. \
I found the Diploma in Digital Marketing Course to be very informative and a great introduction to the topic of digital marketing. The course offers what I would describe as an overview into the various methods of digital marketing and although detailed examples were given of each channel and time was spent exploring various platforms I feel further study would be required outwith the course in order to fully appreciate the capabilities that each platform has.  I feel that the content could have been more up to date and relevant i.e more UK examples and more recent statistics (some stats dated back to 2013). Given that things change so quickly in the field of digital marketing I think the course could be adapted more regularly to reflect various changing trends.   There was a lot of information to absorb within the 5 days of training and perhaps some more printed materials would have been beneficial in order to follow the course in a more structured way. I also think there was quite a bit of unnecessary repetition and some of the syllabus could be condensed.  Overall, I enjoyed the course and feel it has given me the tools and confidence to explore the field of digital marketing in much more detail going forward.\
I thoroughly enjoyed the course, however did find the amount of work to cover in 5 consecutive days fairly intense and would have probably learned more steadily over a longer period.   I found there to be a lot of repetition and as such the course work could be structured more methodically.  \
As I participated in a one on one session, Steve was able to personalise the course to my needs. I had previously discussed with Philippa what I wished to gain from the course and this was passed on to Steve who had already added this around the original course content. Steve also recommended some new tools for me to use, and helped me with some basic information such as shortcuts which I had no awareness of. I brought in my own spreadsheet with me to do some work on, and Steve helped me to decipher the macros and to build my confidence in working on this large sheet. The day was well organised and not rushed at all. If I was unsure of anything I was able to ask and be shown relevant examples. I have already used some of the information I learned and it is only the day after. I will be recommending to my colleagues. \
\
\
\
\
\
There were technical difficulties in delivering the course which we tried unsuccessfully to resolve both from your side and ours. We did find a workable solution which allowed us to go ahead. At the end of the course I felt confident in using pivot tables in the future.\
Personal one to one training. Trainer focussed on needs and explained clearly any questions and  issues I had. Great knowledge and imparted skills well. Would certainly use services again. Thank you \
\
There were a few things that I already knew but the things that I learned today have been very useful\
I must admit that this first session taught me more than the one day session I attended with other TACT staff a few month ago.    Thanks again, Lee Anne\
\
\
\
\
Gained a good understanding of how to use Microsoft Project 2013. Lee Anne was a brilliant trainer & a lovely person. I would certainly recommend this course to others.\
The training was very informative. I have learnt a lot more about different aspects of SharePoint. Thank you Lee Anne\
Lee Anne was a terrific trainer, she was very patient and had a great knowledge of the subject.  I learnt lots, which I have already put to use.  There were some aspects of the course which I can't envisage myself using, but you never know and I'm sure that is the same with every subject.  Thank you for the training.\
The course was tailored to my needs. Philippa and I had exchanged emails prior to the course which was very useful as it allowed Philippa to prep the material beforehand.    As it was a one-to-one session I  was able to go at my pace and Philippa constantly asked if the material we were covering was what I was expecting.  For one of the sessions we used my document and this was a very useful exercise and not one that I have been offered in other training courses.  When a delegate can immediately apply their learning to their own documents - that's a good sign that the course was well received.  I would recommend the course and Philippa ato others, both internal and external.  \
I liked the fact that there were a small number of participants in each session which gave ample opportunity to ask questions or go over something again if I was unsure.  The webinar format worked really well for me.\
There were a couple of items which the trainer required clarification on from a colleague and one item in particular which took up half an hour of the afternoon session, and there still appeared to not be a solution to. However the course then ran over the expected finish time of 4pm which I felt made up for any lost time due to this. I was disappointed not to receive a follow up email after the course, which could have included clarification on the item there appeared to not be a solution for and maybe a synopsis of what was covered on the day. All in all however the course content and teaching was good and it should prove valuable in my future work within PowerPoint.\
Given I had no previous experience of Microsoft Project, I believe the course was extremely well structured and should now give me the basic understandings of how to use the software correctly.\
Enjoyed the training course.\
Enjoyed the training session.\
\
\
Trainers were great and very informative and helpful, however I struggled with learning a course while in my office while others are working around me in a noisy environment it's difficult to concentrate and focus while doing a course at your desk via headphones.\
\
Because SharePoint is such a big subject, different parts of the course content was of interest to different members of the group.  I was extremely interested in creating templates, adding metadata and web parts whereas this seemed to not be relevant to the others.  This is not a criticism as, until we know what SharePoint is capable of, we cannot decide what is relevant.  Lee Anne was extremely patient with us and explained the content very well.\
\
I found the course informative and have learned the capabilities of Share Point which I didn't know before.  Leanne's knowledge was very good.\
\
Course was very helpful and I gained more knowledge about Excel than I thought I would. \
\
\
steve was very good at breaking down and explaining the ways that excel should be used and made tasks thati thought to be difficult simple to understand and put into practise \
\
\
The first session covered things  we should have been aware of when we first changed over earlier this year.\
The training course  was useful as it showed some operations I  hadn't discovered yet. Within our team we have been able to find our way through sharepoint and its many operations. Maybe this course should have been sooner.     \
I apologise for my 'negative attitude' and do fully accept what you say about me needing to set the tone and to lead by example. Fair point.  However I must say that I find it hard to disguise my real feelings and personally - as you know - I find the whole concept of SharePoint to be bewildering (I guess if I was to start talking to you about an 'ambiguous attachment' and just assumed you knew Attachment Theory you'd be in a similar position to the one I'm in!) and as I do not use it currently, see no role for me using it myself (apart from 'horizontal communication' if we can get EVERYONE using it!) and struggle to understand some of its applications, you will understand why I might come over as being unduly critical.  However the negativity is not aimed at you or Lee-Ann and I'm sorry that this may not have been clear as you have both done an excellent job of making something that appeared to be impenetrable, at least something I can appreciate has incredible potential in the right organisation with the right people!\
Some of the aspects of the course were extremely useful and I started using them straight away and showed others in my team. However, some was not really applicable for my role or what I do (setting up new libraries as we are not able to do this in our role as admin for our homepages). Also I felt that some of the features are just duplicating work (e.g. tasks as I already use Outlook). \
The training was very clear and I think it is a good hands on way to learn. It is a shame that Admin staff didn't have this training months ago as most of what was covered in this session we have taught ourselves in East London.\
\
Very basic; in fact too basic.  This would have been much more beneficial when SharePoint was first launched rather than doing it now.  Hope it gets better.  This is also not a reflection on Lee Anne by any means.\
Very easy to follow and the trainer was friendly and helpful.  I rated the 'new knowledge' at 4 stars as I have been using SharePoint so some things I already knew but feel I benefitted from finding out a lot that I didn't know.\
This first session was a little 'basic'.  It would have been more useful if I had not already been working on SharePoint and most of the information I was already aware of.\
I enjoyed the first session and had a little go of what I had learnt straight away.  I like the fact we are learning in 1 1/2 slots, it is much easier to retain information.\
Hi - the course was very informative however as I have been using SharePoint now for a while, a lot of the material and way to work the system I was aware of as I use SharePoint on a daily basis.  I did however learn a few things such as putting the favourites to good use which was very helpful.  I look forward to the next sessions as i'm sure that there is a whole wide range of information and tips on SharePoint that we can use.  Thank you.      \
As it was session 1 it covered everything I already knew so nothing knew learned. Lee Anne very friendly and I believe when it comes to knew topics she'll be very approachable. I think the level covered yesterday was more suitable for when first starting to use SharePoint not when it has been used for many months, so a lot has been picked up already. I do believe it would be suitable for social workers, who don't use as often, to make them more aware. Hopefully the next sessions will teach me knew things :-)\
It covered a lot which I already knew, but I also did learn some new skills.  This is the start of a long trail of sessions so I know the training will get more complicated as the course progresses.\
This was a very good introduction to SharePoint and although I have been using it for a number of months it was good to be made aware of several useful shortcuts and other features thank you.\
This first session covered the basics, some of which were already known, but it gave good insight into what we will hopefully be learning and how to use SharePoint more efficiently so I look forward to the rest of the course. \
Very clear course outline, set a a good pace, which included everyone in the meeting and allowed for some 'hands on' \
\
The course content materials is absolutely littered with errors. Almost every page has a proof reading or factual error and this is the 'gold standard' qualification expected by TCs - it gives me no faith in this qualification or in any person who holds.   I was equally concerned on the trainer's focus on only passing the exam. When questioned about inaccuracies or for further clarification, he deflected or did not seem to know, or assured it was not important. These were relevant questions for running legally compliant businesses and devalued the course as an opportunity for professional development. \
john is passionate and enthusiastic about his subject matter. He works hard to keep the tone of the course interesting and engaging.  However, the course material was poor - with out of date material and references. One example included a legislation change from April 2018, which hadn't been updated in the course manual.  The course was helpful, but found the out of date materials and incorrect referencing a distraction.\
\
Booked on the course at the very last minute , in receipt of last place . Had I had time to think , I would have preempted some of the course material to ensure I was fully equipped . However , I feel i have enough time between the end of the course and the exam to bring myself up to speed and ensure I give myself every chance to succeed . The course material covers every aspect of the exam as decreed by our trainer , this i am sure will be qualified once the examination is attempted and a pass is secured .\
\
I would of liked to have had more slide info for copy\'82\'c4\'f4s and reference. In the long question answers I would next time if I did again prefer slides and book interaction.  I liked the tutor he was very good  The materials could be improved and answers for any questions for exams given be given so we can cross check at home \
Very thorough. Well experienced tutor whom is very approachable and has great in depth knowledge. Can adjust learning/teaching style to adapt to different students \
The trainers did their best and both John and Dan were likeable and good humoured. The room was not conducive to learning with no natural light and a big pillar in the middle. The training material was poorly put together with out of date information, typos, a lack of proof reading and confusing material content. The overall course didn\'82\'c4\'f4t really teach the content, more how to pass the test which wasn\'82\'c4\'f4t really what I was after. Nonetheless, I\'82\'c4\'f4m grateful to John (and Dan) for staying upbeat and positive while trying to get us through the process. Thanks chaps.\
\
Very informative building on my existing knowledge \
Very worthwhile course. The way it was presented broke it down into easily manageable sections which makes it seem less daunting. The trainer was knowledgeable and engaging.\
Great Trainer \
\
I believe we should have our books sent to us before the course to help us get an understanding of what we will be learning. \
\
\
Course content was sufficient however would have liked more interaction and exam preparation.  \
I found the course very useful. Dave was a very good tutor with plenty of knowledge which he used to expand on the manual. I think it would have been better to mix PowerPoint and reading from the manual to break it up a bit. \
\
Learnt plenty, informative and an engaging course overall. \
\
Dave is a brilliant trainer and helped us all .\
Overall very good course \
\
Having been involved in the transportation of Dangerous Goods by Road, Rail, Sea and Air for over 30 years I found the DGSA course content familiar but still challenging. I enjoyed the training environment, the course content and the depth of knowledge of our instructor. I would recommend this course to anyone considering a career in the transportation of Dangerous Goods.\
Thoroughly enjoyable and educational.\
\
Sue was fantastic - clearly had a wealth of knowledge and it felt that she really cared not just that we passed, but that we were equipped to fulfill our duties as DGSA. At first I was unsure about being told exactly what to highlight, however it became apparent that this is by far the best way to find information required with the types of questions they ask.   Will absolutely be recommending CILT for my colleagues. \
\
Enjoyed myself throughout the course Dave is very professional and would recommend \
\
\
Sue was fantastic and very knowledgeable, would love to come back and do more courses with her and the CILT team.\
\
Mixture of PowerPoint and reading material needs to find the right balance \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Really enjoyable course and John delivered the course excellently.  Many thanks \
\
Really enjoyable structured course\
\
Very profesional\
Really enjoyed the course\
Great course and John is really fab, delivering a hard subject with great passion. Just a shame the London course never seems to run?\
Great\
\
Johns overall delivery of the course was great. Really helpful and friendly.  Thank you John \
\
Excellent instruction and I feel confident about passing \
\
The course informative and have got a better understanding..   The trainer had lots of knowledge. The course seemed Too much information to take it.. \
All good\
Great incite into areas of the haulage world I do not have exposure to.  Very patient trainer with great knowledge. The group as a whole very wide spread through the industry and a great help.\
Good course and better than expected\
I could not fault the course in anyway. Eric Miller was outstanding because unfortunately Tracey was unable to attend due to illness. So single handedly Eric conducted the course in a very professional manner.\
\
\
I attended the AP(D) course in Leeds which was very informative and interesting, it covered decontamination aspects that I had not encountered before coming from just an Endoscopy background. This made the course challenging in respect of the other areas that were covered. Overall the trainer & facilities were first class and comfortable, also a sensible approach to the evening meal and expenditure was appreciated, Thanks\
\
Very informative, good training. Memorable information.\
 Very good knowledge from trainer and found the course to be very interesting. \
it was a very interesting course to be in . Its definitely taught knowledge about the process of the endoscope disinfecting and why it is important.\
\
Course materials did not arrive for course\
powerpoint could be improved, provider both friendly and relatable. most issues were related to variety in equipment on site.\
\
\
Ray Martin  is a very experienced and knowledgeable trainer. Practical session was very useful .\
\
the endoscope machine could do with checking as it tripped out when testing it and smelled of burning and to open the door you had to log out and log in \
I felt that there was too much information crammed into too shorter time. It was at times rushed. There should be a printed list of all the acronyms used !\
The course is relevant to the Hospital Industry, the attendees were all from the Pharma Industry so the relevance was not fully aligned to my background and future usage. However it was interesting seeing a different viewpoint on the testing principles. \
The course was worth while, however it would have been more beneficial to me if the course was designed for the pharma industry.  The trainer was good, pleasant  and knowledgeable on his subject , but maybe the course could have been squeezed into 3 full days instead of 5.  many thanks\
The course was very well presented and the instructor was extremely knowledgeable. I particularly enjoyed the practicable.    \
\
\
shame there was new equipment  been installed in the workshop as it affected our course, and there were water leaks in the workshop too .\
Ray was fantastic all week, he's a great teacher with a fountain of knowledge will certainly be recommending him to our management when I return to work next week. 10 out of 10 for Ray in all areas one of the best course Lecturer I've ever had made the course fun and enjoyable along the way.\
\
The course provided me adequate resources needed to improve on my job role and enhanced my knowledge on how to improve the quality of services within Endoscopy decontamination services. \
\
\
\
\
\
there were two engineers and two from SSD so we all felt we would have benefitted more from the four day course as we were a different skill set of people and the condensed course was good we thought the four days would have been better for us.\
\
Unfortunately this course was a new 3 day course and the presentation needed to be adjusted from the original, but due to time issues this was not done. The knowledge of the presenter was excellent \
\
\
As we were two engineers and two SSD staff I felt we would have benefitted more from the four days two on each subject as the course was condensed to three days to cover washer/disinfectors and porous load sterilizers. Saying that it was very informative and the presentation was good, the training was also very knowledgeable and answered all our questions and queries.\
\
\
The course was taught to a very high standard. It is refreshing to be trained by an engineer who is currently working within the industry and can give practical knowledge as well as theoretical.  Thankfully, the trainer was able to provide all equipment required in order to carry out the course.  The exam questions could use some improvement as some questions could have multiple answers.  Having previously completed the Authorised Persons (Decontamination) course, I would suggest that potential AP(D)'s complete the periodic testing course beforehand. I feel that I have solidified my knowledge gained on the AP(D) course via the completion of this one. A rather backward momentum.\
\
\
Overall the course was good, I found Kieth to be very knowledgeable. The only criticism I have is that when it comes to the practical part of the course both the trainer and students should have knowledge about the machine they\'82\'c4\'f4re working on as this would enable things to run more smoothly. \
Tutor was approachable, helpful and knowledgeable. My only criticisms are that the power point content could be better presented (repeats in places).  The other point is that the final exam had a couple of questions that you could argue had multiple answers that would be correct. \
The course was Good, I found the Tutor difficult to follow at times but OK I unfortunately had a bereavement so had  to miss the Steriliser side of the course, so very much need to do this asap  now\
\
Too many people on the course. \
Thank you for the received treatment, I consider very useful all the information provided.  Regards \
The course was very educating and intresting,this is because it revealed what weekly decontamination is all about and also the standards behind decontamination.I will recommend more practical to be included in the course.\
some BS EN references were incorrect.\
I enjoyed the 2 day course it gave me an insight to more in depth workings of the machine and is relevant to me in my new post. It also gave me more in depth knowledge for the maintenance of the machines.\
\
In the course materials the paperwork referred to the standard as 16422 incorrectly on two occasions. Aside from that the materials were of a good standard and the course was well equipped to meet the needs of our staff. \
\
\
\
\
\
I really enjoyed the course, it was very informative and  i learned a lot.This course was an excellent opportunity for me to acquire more skill in my profession. It is a very interesting course  and  is a step on the right direction and ability to stay focus with full potential. This course has brooding  my knowledge in teams of global technology.  The course is very creative and enable me to be more pro -active , more efficiently and effective in team of production. The course also  analysed planing , organising , control, monitory and taking corrective actions through  implementation. The course has  a clear understanding of motivation  strategy management index system which is comparative advantage in team of feed back and survey from customer satisfaction\
This course was very educating,   refreshing and absolutely relevant to my role in the department. My confidence as a user has been effectively boosted. \
The PowerPoint presentation requires some updating to keep it in line with the relevant standards, luckily the trainer knew the new standards and was able to advise the class about them.\
I really enjoyed this  course and found it very appropriate to my role of Licencing Officer (LA) , the course book is very good as well. \
\
\
\
\
David was very professional, warm and friendly. \
There seemed to be a lot of brakes during the course and start was delayed by 45minutes due to the registration and ID checking process.  the course seemed to be taught specifically to answer the questions and a lot of self study and question mock papers were undertaken.  To be fair, with reading the course handbook you could have probably just sat the exam and not bothered with the course itself.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
I never received any of the learning material I was asked to bring with me to the course, the trainer kindly gave me a copy when I arrived\
\
Hugh was excellent and prepared me well for the exam at the end of the day.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Only thing was when I got to the venue the time on the board said that it started at 09:00 so I almost went home! \
Course trainer not very interesting, very difficult to follow and cross reference in course book, flat and boring. A very long day of that could have been made easier to follow and understand.\
\
Trainer had a new powerpoint system to work with and it had changed from previous sessions and evident he had not known prior to the training.\
Helpful course, the trainer was really good explaining all in details\
It would have been useful to have some background reading to do prior to the course, but then again, I was late in my registration for the course with no time to snail mail me some information. maybe some online information that is accessible.\
\
\
\
I didn't receive my course materials until the day, and they were apparently an old version, so not quite right. In regards to the tutor and invigilator, they were well informed, professional, and on point. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
I felt the trainer could have been a bit more engaging, it was very monotoned and boring. Perhaps group exercises? I barely consumed anything. I was right at the back and couldn\'82\'c4\'f4t hear much either :/\
VERY good cours and exellent  trainer. Spend day with fun and got knowledg !!! ))\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
My trainer was Helen Towsey and not Simon Haslam as per the Course Details on the left of this page.\
\
\
Simon was fantastic, made what could've potentially been quite dry subject matter relatable and easily understandable. By the time it came to take the exam I felt more than prepared for it.\
\
\
\
\
\
The gentleman who lead the course was fantastic. He had a great deal of valuable industry knowledge/experience and he was able to impart a lot information in a short space of time. Very educational.\
\
\
I would recommend moving venue as the hotel is in a state of decline.\
\
\
\
Simon showed experienced in his career\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
an update after would be nice as I am still not sure if I even passed the exam or what to do next\
Everything was excellent.  If any constructive feed back. Rooms were a bit warm even with windows open and food was very average and little. \
\
my only thought was not having worked in the business of selling alcohol I could have been better prepared for the day. I think if you were already a barman then it would have been easy while I could have done more prep to help with the day ahead \
\
The course gave me a much better understand of the subject matter and the trainer explained everything very well and was very experienced. It did feel a little rushed at the end however this was due to the fact it was snowing and people were worried about getting home. \
\
\
\
The course was meant to finish by 4:30pm but we finish 45minutes before. I believe that we could practice a bit more on the test and not doing everything in a rush. At the end it is almost \'ac\'a3400 foe the course. We should ise all the time to learn and pass the test More coffee was missing after lunch.\
\
\
We made the training in a claustrophobic room, tea and coffee was only provided on early morning and the breaks result too short to get the chance to buy it. Our trainer ended nearly one hour early, but all of us had a terrible feeling regarding the test, as we didn't went through enough fixing doubts and questions. 10 minutes break at 11.30 (it took at least 5 minutes exit from the building. And 10 minutes break before the exam (after all day completely packed on a small room could be good idea give us a couple of minutes more to buy a coffee and repass our notes) as most of us were Europeans and English not our first language (and the high speed teaching service offered didn't help).   \
Facilities where ok, but you went through an inner office and could clearly hear them on the phone and having a conversation whilst trying to take the exam\
Relaxed and nice atmosphere thanks to the trainer\
\
Did not receive before course any postal materials\
\
\
The room was cold, the material that was provided was great, but working in a cinema, i cant see how i would find any use for it. \
\
I never received the work book etc as this was sent to the wrong address, also the venue was extremely cold however after some time we were moved to a warmer room\
only thing would be good is to provide hot drinks as it takes ages to be served and charged different prices for the same thing \
Need coffee at the venue.  Also Popplestones appear to have lost my paperwork which is not good.\
\
\
\
\
\
Helen managed to present a dry subject matter very effectively. Thank you!\
none\
Very informative and interesting \
\
Frank was a great teacher. \
The trainers were excellent, location was basic but did the job\
\
\
trainer very engaging\
\
The PowerPoint was very bland, the trainer knew the content well but with a newer trainer this course would have been much harder to follow. \
wonderful, no complaints\
\
Charging \'ac\'a31 for powdered coffee seemed a bit steep! Very well organised.  Staff on the front desk were not the friendliest or most helpful! \
\
Food provided by CSC was not great but that's not to be helped by you guys I guess! V interesting insights from the trainer, who was an ex license officer - certainly made a dry subject area much more engaging and added context\
The training was useful with a knowledgeable tutor, however, it took place on 1st September and we were told the test results would be published within 10 working days but I still haven't received it.\
all was great\
Excellent structured day with adequate breaks to absorb the information. Trainer was very helpful and took time to explain things in detail to try to help us digest everything we needed to in the timescale she had. Very relaxed (thankfully) and great place to run the course. \
\
\
the course was very good and very enlightning and the instructor was very good .\
Gained a lot of knowledge during the course. Enjoyable day with a great trainer. \
\
Excellent course \
The course was really nice. I find it really fun to learn especially when the Tutor explaining a topic and given us an example base on his experiences, it dose help me to see the picture. \
Very polished and very professional \
\
\
It was everything great, But hope I did pass  This is the only problem \
\
\
\
\
\
\
the only thing I would say is that the mock exams there was questions in there that was asked in the main exam \
The trainer was very engaging, happy to help and patient. Very good course and also enjoyable. \
GREAT COURSE TRAINER \
More subject talk based on more questions relating to the test.\
I did really enjoy this course and trainer was great\
I did really enjoy this course and trainer was great\
\
\
Excellent training with good interaction. Venue could be better, no refreshment even though it was mentioned on the invitation letter. Just a coffee could have kept us awake !\
very good trainer knew what she was teaching and did it well\
There was no parking at this venue and I think lunch would have been provided also \
\
\
Good course, very clear and succinct overall\
\
You could see how the course on paper could come across as slightly dull however that was not the case, the trainer was excellent, he knew all the facts and key information and made the course enjoyable and educational at the same time. Certainly grabbing the attention of myself and others in the room and demonstrating key points with examples and experiences that helped the information soak in. \
Well run and informative event at an excellent venue.\
Administration was brilliant. The venue was average.\
\
\
There was a lot to take in and we may have benefited from the course being delivered over 1.5 days\
Room was a little cramped and noisy.\
Very well structured, clear language, great pace and timings with breaks. Great facilities and refreshments. I did email re dietary requirements which unfortunately weren't catered for during lunch, however the hotel restaurant manager was very accommodating and made a separate meal for myself.\
Next step would be to include an informatics system to do the exam. Everything was excellent.\
\
\
\
Terrible room lights. Gave me terrible migraine all day. I actually vomitted half our into it. Trainer was understanding and let me wear my sunglasses throughout the day. Cate was great\
\
\
Refreshments at break times would have been appreciated\
This course was a must for me to help with my futre career the booking office staff were amazing they emailed me with all details and directions very helpful aslo the course teachers were brilliant gave out as much info as possible and i couldent fault them they mayed me feel at ease i would definitely advise people to take any off these courses with ease thanks for all your help kind regards mr owens \'82\'f2\uc0\u8747 \
\
\
Lovely environment and facilities -  Helen is very knowledgeable, patient and considerate. Many thanks\
The only thing i would say it would have been nice to have coffee with lunch or in the afternoon. \
Course room was a little warm particularly during the afternoon. Good trainer, but I felt the course was geared towards ensuring candidates passed as opposed to giving an in-depth description of licensing law. (eg. 'underline and remember these words', 'you can read the rest of these pages in your own time')\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The trainer was fantastic. Personable and friendly, and made the course fun.\
Overall the course was conducted in a professional and informative manner. I am pleased to say I learnt quite a lot in the short period of time.\
I bit disappointed that did not get my results but had to call it and ask for them\
Very informative, enjoyed the day, fingers crossed I passed\
\
Mark was great ! Very clear and made the course interesting! Thank you\
\
Very good, trainer was trying to make it as interesting as much as he could \
\
Great facility overall and better preparation for lunch, 1 staff from hotel should collect 'Panini's and drinks card' orders collected from delegates tables at 11am.\
I had a lovely day , both Pam&Hugh were lovely people answering any questions without any hesitation! Thank you very much !\
\
\
It would be useful if the presentation slides were made available to keep.\
Mark was a very nice man / great teacher made everyone feel comfortable. \
The course is to compact for a one day session and requires two days. A complete novice with little or no experience could struggle on this limited input.\
\
\
\
\
Our Tutor, Phil was first class and very comprehensive in explaining all the relevant points throughout the Training day.\
\
\
Very good course\
Very informative and easy to understand \
\
Great learning experience, \
Sam was great, tailored the day of testing to my weak areas. Learnt more in one day than in a month at college. Very pleased and wish them all the best.\
\
\
\
 Steve was fantastic and very resourceful, thank you again for your help. \
 Steve was excellent, thanks again\
Sam Craig is a excellent teacher I I hope to get more training from him.  I will be back to do more courses\
Really good course although there could have been slightly more information on the installation side i.e what to look for when checking bonding connections, types of fixings we could encounter                                                                                                \
\
My expectations were that the course would focus more on the technical side of things but being a 3 days course I understand it is physically impossible to go that far and also be able to go through all the regs book at the same time. So the training did what we would expect and that is to become familiar and recognise the 18th edition.\
\
\
Practical question above was not applicable. The course form and presentation was very good.\
\
\
To much to take in one day specially theory side.\
\
\
Great centre with lovely friendly staff. Second time I've been here and it most certainly won't be the last!\
I enjoyed the course and Sam the trainer did an exceptional job of preparing us for the examination. Well done to all at PTT.\
\
\
17th part3 update at ptt had a practice run using the computers. Not having that today was an unsettling surprise \
Didn\'82\'c4\'f4t have   each candidate  practical section.\
This is the third time I have been to PTT in the last 10 years Sam  is a very professional tutor who was always prepared to go over things more than once to make sure everyone understood the topic, he was helpful throughout the course. It was a pleasure to be taught by him. I would recommend anyone who is looking to enhance their knowledge in the electrical  industry to go to PTT\
\
The course material, tutorial and facilities are excellent and in a lot of ways, makes you feel comfortable both mentally and physically, which is a major plus, Bob Groves the tutor is an excellent instructor both with his knowledge and empathy, he is in touch, and prepares you superbly for your exams , I highly recommend PTT to anyone who wishes to take an electrically biased course.\
\
Excellent facilities made even better by a very good tutor. Sam took time to help us all understand elements where we might have been confused. A very good teacher indeed. The best by far that I have come across recently.\
Some questions raised were not answered conclusively.   Test rigs were of poor quality.   Refreshments were adequate. \
Very well put together course for the level of persons attending. Trainer seemed a little lost at times of what to talk about next. Lots long pause's.\
\
\
\
\
\
Absolutely faultless. The way Sam delivered the lesson ( Theory and Practical ) you couldn\'82\'c4\'f4t do anything but learn. He had time for us, he was professional , extremely knowledgable and his warming manner enhanced the learning.The course was well structured , the learning environment was comfortable , the instruction , handouts , the going over certain parts to ensure a thorough and deep understanding was all spot on. Anyone needing any courses run by PTT would be foolish to go anywhere else. I\'82\'c4\'f4ll be back soon. \
\
\
In three day 18th edition course Chris was great to gain confidence for final exam.\
\
Super course. Super teacher. Steve was very helpful in all aspects. \
\
I thought the course was very well run. Also the lecturer handled the pace of the course very well\
\
\
\
Very good course.\
\
\
Thoroughly enjoyed the course and learnt a lot, also realising that there needs to be changes in thinking within the industry.  I will be recommending the course to my colleagues. \
Was not looking forward to 1 day course as a lot to go over with 18th regs but Steve made it interesting and got all information across not just to pass test but to take on after course was complete, Another great course\
\
After completion of the domestic installer 1 and 2 I have learnt so much more than I expected, this course is perfect for beginners with little to no knowledge.   The class was just 4 people which meant we had help whenever it was needed. Our instructor Sam was brilliant and really explained everything well and made it all so clear to us.   All the staff at PTT are really friendly and helpful.   Highly recommend this course for anyone thinking about looking to become qualified as an electrician, wish I had done it years ago!\
\
I found the course to be extremely dumbed down, patronising and demeaning. I turned up to do a rack maintenance course and was sat there for a whole day learning about how electricity flows and how dangerous it is. I did this in school, as many people did I assume. I was then subjected, on the first day, to a practical test of wiring up a plug. Words are beyond me as to why I had to do that. It wasn't until the last hour of the second day, after a scrutinising two days of meaningless powerpoint presenting by an overpaid instructor, that I eventually got my hands on a rack to maintain and inspect. Something that I have done for many years and cannot comprehend why this course is a pre-requisite for Field engineers in my position. Overall, I found the course to be a total waste of Vodafone's time, money and intellect.\
Steve was excellent again, the second course I've done with him and can't rate him highly enough. A very knowledgeable and helpful trainer \
As always a very friendly atmosphere relaxed and professional all my training over the years as been with PTT and will continue to be in the future   \
I would pay extra for a vegan option for lunch ;)  Thank you for the loan of the reading specs\
\
\
Fantastic 3 day course learning the 18th edition wiring regs. Chris Clegg the tutor was very helpful and patient throughout the duration of the course. Highly recommended \
I attended the 3 day 18 edition training course. I had not used the Reg`s much over the last few years. The course got me up to speed and I passed. So I am thankful. The course is good it covers what you need to pass. The facilities are fantastic. I highly recommend. The front counter staff are helpful and friendly. thank you.\
\
The course was great I couldn\'82\'c4\'f4t fault it  I would of liked more practice papers to take home n found an online exam on sparky facts that helped too\
Good course, great staff, reasonable lunch. Very happy overall. Chris Clegg is a top guy, very knowledgable and helpful. \
\
\
very helpfull\
Facilities were extremely poor due to the state of location \
good course\
The  course was very good.Avtar was an excellent teacher who taught us very well regarding all aspects of the course.I would highly recommend.\
The  course was very good.Avtar was an excellent teacher who taught us very well regarding all aspects of the course.I would highly recommend.\
Overall the course was very good and met all the requirements we needed to pass the course. Avtar was very helpful and knowledgeable, and taught us exactly what we needed to know to pass. Would recommend. \
I found the course was a bit rushed and maybe 2 days  might have been better to give more depth to the material in the book and to spend more time looking at the different types of charging unit available in the room\
\
\
Ufortunately this course had little relevance to my day to day job. The online pre-course materials and test was sufficient to refresh my understanding of electrical hazards. The course attendance to cable a 3-pin and commando plug wasn't really necessary nor cost effective. However, the instructor was very knowledgable as always.\
\
Great course, VERY well delivered by a seasoned professional.\
This was a refresher course, so no new skills learnt, but useful nonetheless. \
Brilliant , 1 day course most others offer as 2 to 3 day course   Very intense and a lot to learn but it has stuck in my mind so that says something ! The courser lecturer was excellent , good teaching methods and friendly including all the staff at the centre   The centre is well equipped and modern I would return again for a course but the 340 mile round trip is tricky ! Well worth the long journey though  Good work ptt !\
The course was rather pointless for my personal position the pre requisite training covered everything I basically spent 15 hours away from home to learn how to wire a plug up. There were a few extra bits that were useful and Joga was a great trainer.... I just feel overall it was a waste of time and needs to be made available specifically  to people who specifically deal with transmission racks and not just compulsory to anyone who has engineer in their job title.  Of the 7 candidates of the course it was not relevant to anyone on a day to day function.  Not trying to be negative just my personal opinion. \
quality of materials very very poor\
\
Great course , very good centre and very helpful teacher,   he has a very good way to explain the ideas and to let the trainers understand every point  Thank you very much Sam .  But you need more adverts. \
An excellent course, with an instructor that put information across to students very well. Sometimes going back to basics on electrical theory to jog peoples memories on certain aspects of the course.  If I was going to have a career in electrical engineering or similar...I would want Joga (course instructor) to teach me.\
\
\
\
Good refresher, well tailored to my company's needs and my own role.\
Trainer was extremely personable, had excellent knowledge of the course content and was able to answer any questions fully \
Parking is an issue at site, please update slide regarding to first aid. You go for help or call 999 before starting CPR. Not CPR then go for help as once you start CPR you can't stop until an ambulance or doctor arrive or you become physically unable to perform CPR.  \
\
again another well presented course.\
\
\
I found Chris a very professional instuctor,he delivers the lesson in a no nonsense maner which I enjoyed very much. I do feel very equipt to take my training to the next level,even tho trying is some distance and there is a near branch of PTT I AM considering of returning to trying to do my inspection and test. Brillant job guys and thanks\
\
I did not book the course so can not mark it but I would think it was 5*\
As you can see I\'82\'c4\'f4m fully satisfied with you company, the course, the teacher, the office staff. I\'82\'c4\'f4ve been to you before and would come again. \
Well done guys, excellent venue, excellent services !\
Enjoyable and worthwhile training\
\
\
\
\
I visit remote radio sites on a regular basis and it is important I am aware of all possible electrical hazards . The course has confirmed a lot of previous knowledge and advised of recent changes in processes and regulation . All together , very useful information\
\
\
\
\
Hi The training was very informative.The instructor very knowledgeable course was well structured.The presentation calm well informed.All round Very positive.\
Excellent course as always with a friendly approachable instructor.\
Excellent from start to finish. Couldnt have been any better. Chris went through the regs thoroughly and it was enjoyable 3 days. Many thanks  Azam\
Very good trainer and great facilities\
I was disappointed that none of the new changes to bs7671 were taught/ discussed. The tutor was not able to address this as there was a lot to cover over the two days which I understand but I do feel that the new regulations need to be covered as people will not implement them out on site if they are unaware of the changes.\
\
The test boards are quite badly worn and some components require replacement\
A little bit to short for all aspect.\
\
\
\
\
Sam was helpful and polite \
\
Professional and effective training team, friendly too.\
\
\
no issues\
\
Thoroughly enjoyed the course, i already have a fair knowledge of regulations but it was good to recap. Steve was excellent and explained things very well, really look forward to more training with PTT.\
\
A good refresher. Thanks\
\
Very well presented with a high level of knowledge\
\
Its a great course.\
Bit cold in the room, \
Thank you for furthering my knowledge in regards to the 18th Edition and not to forget how to use BS7671 book efficiently to gain the information to answer the questions presented to us. \
\
\
Steve was very good, professional & considerate manner.  Venue great, Lunch was great.  \
Steve is a great tutor and trainer, the course subject was filled thoroughly and at any point Steve is always willing to go through certain aspects if you are unsure.\
\
\
Ive been lucky enough to have Steve as a tutor before and once again he made the day casual but informative, efficient and well organised. Will always come to you guys first in the future\
Ive been lucky enough to have Steve as a tutor before and once again he made the day casual but informative, efficient and well organised. Will always come to you guys first in the future\
food was great couldnt believe the quality of the food excellent idea to supply a buffet was very welcomingthank you\
Explained that with the correct procedures followed methodically and with the correct equipment connecting to DC voltage terminals can be carried out safely, even for someone with a dislike in working near the stuff\
Course speed & practical to theory content was just right.\
\
As a repeat customer to PTT, i found the experiance as good as always.  The tutor was very good and laid everything out very well, this is my second time i have done this Course at PTT and i had the same tutor for both. The only thing i feel may be beneficial is more for the comfortability of the tutor as both times i took this course with a 3 yr gap he seems to suffer heavily from the air bourn dust in the room and seeing as he does alot of talking it seemed at some points quite painfull for him to talk.  As a recomendation for perhaps his confort a MVHR could be considdered. \
\
Great overview and tutorials. Highly recommended.\
Thank you  See you again\
Very good facilities \
\
Course seemed not relevant to our roles as Field Engineers. Throughout the day and a half of the course we were constantly told that 'this will not relate to your role'. Hearing that throughout a course does not peak anyone's interest at all. Also the practical side of the course was also not very relevant to our job roles. The first practical I have been told by other engineers that they have not had to make up plugs in around 15years or so as there is no longer a need to - it is an interesting skill to have but not relevant to my job role anymore. The other practical's were not relevant at all, in our job roles I have never heard or been told we will ever have to deal with that side of the job as we are now Unified Comms Technicians which means we specifically deal with the Telecommunications and not much else.  I found the trainer occasionally disinterested in the course themselves and did not ever encourage class or group discussions except for the last hour of the whole course in one of the practical's.  The course was also just full of theory, but not the theory we can get involved in, it was nearly a whole day and a half of just listening to the instructor talk while we looked at the occasional picture with text on the board.\
Thanking you all for a Very Helpful tuition/ course/procedures\
if a long more technical course incorporating some design was on offer I would sign up\
\
\
\
could have had more hands on, if another fuse board ( did not have to be live ) for people to connect up the DC cables. So need at least one more rack with fused may be two. \
I always use PTT for my training needs. They never disappoint   Thanks again guys\
\
As per usual, PTT meet all our expectations. We have now used PTT for new edition's, PAT, testing and inspection and design courses and every time we have come away confident in the subject. I would recommend PTT to anyone in the Electrical industry trying to enhance there qualifications and knowledge. \
\
\
All the course was run well from start to finish and all the staff were very helpful and had very good knowledge of the subject. The course trainer delivered it well and I actually found the course informative although some of it had nothing to do with us but still interesting \
Steve was very knowledgeable and knew the material and subject matter very well. Having 0 knowledge of the topic before hand it was at the perfect level and I left with a much greater understanding. \
\
I think lack of information from Hyperoptic on what we wanted from the course didn't help with course content. Think more relevant equipment is need for the attendee to see what is actually installed by certain vendors but overall the course was informative, i can say that i gain more incite into the how DC power works with rectifiers. Thank you     \
I appreciate there is a balance between passing the exam and learning the course content. In my opinion the course was too much waited towards passing the exam. I wanted to deepen my understanding of BS7671 and that wasn't achieved as much as I hoped. I appreciate that in 3 days there is not a lot of time. \
A little slow to start, but it always is, but a excellent delivery and finish well done Chris.\
\
Excellent 3 days and outcome The room could have been a little warmer. Especially 1st day\
Absolutely great peoples and just very well prepared personnel. I attended the course with trepidation and, indeed, during the time there I got so confident that, indeed, I passed the exam with flying results. I cannot praise enough the human touch and great preparation of the personnel of PTT, from the sympathetic administrators to the skilled instructors, and I am grateful to all for the excellent experience  I had.\
Too much noise when sitting exam on laptop coming from reception talking to people. Very distracting for me. \
\
Have recommended PTT loads. Should have a scheme if you don't already have one. \
This course had far too much emphasis on just passing the exam and should really have been based on the document- how it is put together, the evolution of it, how to apply it etc. . Passing the exam at the end of the course would have been a natural progression. \
\
Excellent course  Good tutor  Hard work \
\
Examples of the changes to the reg's would have good.\
Electrical Training is a 'must have' in order for me to stay in business. PTT always manage to make a 'must attend' session pleasurable. Chatting with other 'time served' sparks is always educational! Thankyou.\
\
\
Excellent \
Great Establistment. Very professional and very well organised. My instructor, Avtar, was very friendly, professional and knowledgeable. He made sure I understood all aspects of the course and encouraged me to ask questions throughout. Very happy with the course and would definitely return & recommend to others. \
very informative course delivered in a very professional manner.\
Should have requested the 25% additional time due to my dyslexia?! (as previous) So hard to accurately interpret the questions under pressure, so annoying!!! My fault not to ask?!\
\
\
Great course as always .\
\
\
Can\'82\'c4\'f4t fault PTT will definitely come again \
Well run course. Excellent teacher with a sense of humour. \
\
I was a bit rusty coming on to the course, but after the pre exam teaching I found the online exam a lot easier than the practice test.\
\
\
\
Chris was very good in explaining to new requirements in the 18th edition. knowledgeable and friendly man. Thanks Chris....\
\
\
\
The trainer was exactly what was needed  Very knowledgable and very helpful \
\
\
\
\
\
My only issue was that it was a bit cold, due to the smokers going out of the fire door and it staying open. The food was very good.\
The Documents/Forms used were out of date and did not reflect the current forms in the IET EVC Code of Practice and on the ENA website which I presumed we were studying. Given that I attended this course to refresh following the 18th Edition changes this was very disappointing and defeated the object. The incorrect DNO Form was being used (there was no reference to the service capacity been verified by the DNO? You must verify the service capacity with the relevant DNO prior to installation if MD > 60 Amps. The incorrect Annexchecklists and RA's were being referenced (Annex D forms were issued for On-Street works when this is now covered by Annex C etc). This is no slight on the trainer who was able to assist in questions as they arose and led the training well. \
Course was extremely well conducted and very informative.\
\
No custard creams, but coffee on tap.\
On nearing the completion of the 2 hour exam, I returned to the flaged questions, to add my final answers, but for some reason, I was unable to populate the flaged questions, this was witnessed by Steve Redparth, then the time elapsed.  Steve informed me, that he would be contacting the City & Guilds, to try and find out what caused the problems and would be in contact with me.\
The Course is just an update so assumes prior knowledge. Trainer was able to provide background for those with weaker knowledge.\
Lecturer provided us with all the tools required to fully understand the incoming changes to the BS7671\
I would have liked a bit of practical work or some demonstrations on the equipment also I felt there was a bit too much time spent on batteries for us and the work we do. \
This the 4th cours I've done with PTT and very impressed with them.  They very knowledgeable and have a great way of teaching and preparing you for the exam! The best school for sparks!\
Well organised and run course. Excellent trainer.\
Chris was great as always, delivered the course content as it needed to be done so. It meet the desired expectations on the new 18th edition regs, it was described as an update with an exam at the end of the day and that is exactly what we received.\
Good\
Presentation was well done and enjoyable.\
Steve was very knowledgeable about the course content so could guide us in a smooth manner\
\
Very good, enjoyed the day and felt I gained the knowledge I was looking to.\
Very relaxed and professional delivery.\
Course was Good and covered what I was hoping to gain from it\
Course was brilliant and very helpful learnt a lot. Trainers we great and helped with anything they felt you were struggling with. Top marks \
Myself and few other candidates felt it would of been helpful to have spent more time understanding and filling out periodic paper work.  I can appreciate that to be able to do this the course may need to have an additional day added to the course. \
Trainers were excellent   Circuit breakers bit too damaged  \
Very good instructor for the 18th edition, good pace, notes and materials provided, already recommended PTT to another company  Well done\
\
Lovely welcome, objectives of the course entirely fit my needs.  Felt it helped my skills, knowledge and confidence in taking the exam.\
Very pleased, very understanding.\
\
Very well presented and useful course.  Chris, as always, was terrific.\
\
A very knowledgeable Tutor and very well delivered.  Always available to assist in the most professional manner.  Well done Proactive Technical training for a very hospitable 3 days.\
Fantastic company will definitely be back Steve has a way of explaining things that makes it clear and easy to understand without being condescending  \
\
\
\
\
More practical required to show the testing \
The instructor was excellent.  He had a wealth of knowledge, pitched it at the correct level for the audience and made the whole course very enjoyable. Food and refreshments were excellent, facilities are well suited tot he course delivery style and content. Overall outstanding! \
Would be good to include more practical like terminating cable taking power reading ect \
Very  good  course  and a very good tutor \
All good thanks - just what we needed \
Very pleasant course. Well presented. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very good conversion course to new version of the Wiring Regs.\
\
The course was well run will use you again\
The course was great, the content was spot on and it has now placed me perfectly to do the job, confidently.  Course delivery was great, I have also developed and delivered training courses in various electrical subjects myself (I have an ILM cert) so am always on the lookout for delivery techniques, as well as the course itself. Great experience, keep up the good work!\
\
\
Very good \
\
\
\
A very useful course, which highlights the need for rack earthing in a telecoms environment.\
Very good refresher course with good content\
Well presented with good humour, I enjoyed the course and look forward to the next one I do with PTT.\
When you think you know everything. You don't. I have learnt lots of information that's going to help me greatly going forward thank you.\
the course material is ok but would be good that when printed out the slides were larger.  Really good overview course, which Avtar made an interesting and enjoyable day\
\
\
\
Avtar was great. Kept it all relative and gave us real life scenarios throughout the training which was great. \
\
The questions not answered were not relevant to 18th Edition course.  Having not taken an electrical exam for ten years I was a bit concerned that I might struggle with the new regs. After going through the course with Chris I flew through the exam gaining a high score. I thought he was very good at teaching the subject and it was a pleasure to have attended. \
\
\
This is the 3rd course I\'82\'c4\'f4ve attended at PTT and can\'82\'c4\'f4t rate them highly enough. The trainers are always helpful and willing to answer any question.  I\'82\'c4\'f4m looking forward already to my next course there. \
Fantastic facilities and a fantastic tutor ! Will book another course soon :) \
informative,helpful.to the point,one day course content balance just right.\
I found the course good as I was already very familiar with the regs and didn't want to waste my time doing a longer course. \
\
\
\
\
Excellent course completed in a very credible timescale  Trainer very knowledgeable and course content very thorough \
Very good, as with all courses I have done here.  Knowledgeable staff and friendly atmosphere.\
\
\
\
Really worth my coming up to PTT for this. Rob really knows his stuff and how to get it across.\
\
Avtar got my interest from the off and showed a very confident grasp of the subject matter. His first class array of reclaimed electrical accessories showing the effects of damage were most tactile. His passion just shone through, excellent trainer and I have learned so much. Thank you.\
Everything was fantastic but for the old building and available parking. These are quite minor things and I would certainly recommend to others.\
Well presented course - found it extremely relevant and useful.\
Very useful ,relevant course \
Good course. Set at the correct level for the people who attended. This is the 4th course I've done with PTT, over a 10 year period.\
\
Passed course first time and have sat 3 exams with ptt this is my 4  \
\
Very good course concise and easy to understand\
\
\
Excellent Course. \
Ran very smoothly\
very good Course\
\
A central London location for a training centre is ridiculous when there are so many other site options ,also it was in the middle of a building site, with workmen walking backwards and forwards in front of the screen and disrupting the session \
The tutor Chris had an excellent knowlege on the course content and delivered it exceptionally well. The overall experience of PTT was very good from start to finish.\
Well informed and a nice relaxing atmosphere.\
\
\
\
\
\
Great one-day course for the 18th, quick and easy \
\
\
\
very good course\
\
N/A\
it should be half theoretical and half practical\
Staff freindly, curtious and efficient. Unfortunatly had to answer two required fields that are totally not applicable.\
\
The venue was completely unsuitable due to the heat in the room and lack of air conditioning.  Conditions conducive to learning would have made the course easier to follow.  As it was, it was difficult to concentrate.  Albeit this is in the middle of a British 'heatwave', but a single desk fan to try and cool down a reasonably large room is a bit of a joke.\
The room was NOT suitable with the current temperatures. Air conditioning room would of been much better. \
\
To be honest having to make a plug up once again seems pretty pointless. Bewteen the 8 of us on the course none had less than 20 years experience and this should taken into account instead of getting us to make a 3 pin plug up\
Training room very hot no airconn. 10 students and instructor in the very small, hot equipment room not ideal.\
Keeping the course booklet would have been nice.\
I think some of the practical's such as wiring a 13a and commando plug unnecessary as we don't normally have to do this.\
\
\
Great content and knowledgeable instructor who presented course in professional manner which made content easy to understand and apply in practice.\
\
\
My trainer was Nicky Petrou not Steve Redpath.   Great course, Nicky couldn\'82\'c4\'f4t do enough to help me. Gained more knowledge than I could of asked for. \
Good course and well presented \
\
\
\
\
\
The whole experience of learning and passing the 2391-52, was made possible by all the amazing team and PTT.  I will recommend you highly to all my colleagues.  P.S The coffee was amazing too !! \
Great staff and informative course\
A Very good and informative course \
Excellent trainer.\
Fantastic experience,  it\'82\'c4\'f4s a very friendly and relaxing atmosphere, perfect when you suffer from nerves like myself in exam conditions.\
\
\
It was a school of excellence , I recommend your training academy to any one who is interested in this type of learning.  I found Rob to be very professional his style of teaching is second to none.  Vivian Blake\
Very informative regarding the new Fluke range of PQ analysers\
\
\
A good course that was well presented. Cleared up a few myths and answered questions why we have such procedural practices. Thank you. \
The whole course at PTT from booking to completion has been great, and the level of knowledge from the tutor is excellent! Everyone at PTT has really made an effort and was an enjoyable course overall.\
\
\
\
Highly recommended, excellent overall training \
 Brilliant. Great learning exercise.\
I thought the course also had a workmanship test also but a good H&S introduction to keep people safe and aware of the need for working safe practices.  It was my misunderstanding good course!  would look for other courses on offer and recommending that a workmanship standards course be here also to check crimping and measurements and insulation testing is done correctly a bit bespoke but I think we could easily achieve this.\
Good technical training\
Excellent hands on training from Rob. Provided very clear overview of safety process, plus inspection and testing best practices. This approach was very refreshing, I would definitely recommend this Inspec and Test refresher course to ensure you are both safe and up to date (practically) on your approach. \
Excellent refresher course\
\
\
\
\
Course title is Rack Safety but Content does not match. An on site excursion to the cabinets might be helpful. DC Engineers already have a grade of Knowledge this should be taken into consideration. It was a Course for absolute beginners and almost houshold awareness.\
The course content was really usefull and informative.\
A first class presentation, course notes were well laid out and concise.\
Good course.\
Overall a brilliant course. Learnt everything I needed to know without feeling rushed or pressurised to complete. Trainer made myself and everyone else feel very relaxed which I think benefited the overall result. \
Robert is well versed in the C&G 2396 and proved- very helpful during the kick start day As it was a small group, it was possible to ask a lot of questions \
\
\
Very impressed with PTT. Our trainer Steve was excellent and all the staff are very friendly. Would recommend PTT to everyone!\
\
\
The course answered most of the questions that I had & quite a few more.\
\
\
Friendly helpful staff and a relaxed atmosphere\
\
thoroughly enjoyable course , all staff really friendly & helpful. Robert was & excellent trainer\
\
\
\
Very interesting. However I think  the tutor assumed i am a electrical engineer. I work with DC telecoms equipment only.  But i still learnt things.\
\
\
Very good course with useful information.\
\
I am a 62year old man who has been in the industry some 47 years. while the course brought to the fore the knowledge I have within me it also taught me how much I can still learn,and did thanks to the staff at PTT. I fully intend to use PTT for my future training[even at my time of life]and would recommend them to anybody. ps.thank Robert for his patience  and tutoring. \
Fantastic course and Steve did a great job.\
Excellent Course presented by Steve. Easy to follow and lots of examples to fill the gaps in my mind. Would recommend to any other colleague.\
excellent\
\
\
\
Trainer did mention that this course could be squeezed into 1 day for a small group, i would have found this difficult due to the amount of details which are rather dry and tedious but important to understand. It would also be nice to have a copy of the course slides/presentations for reefence in future.\
\
\
Good information\
\
Enjoyable course.\
I found the Leadership programme challenging, rewarding, interesting and really fun and has proved useful both in work and out of work. A very different approach to Leadership training that I have experienced before and one that I think most people will be able to identify with and benefit from.\
Cracking course  - not for the faint hearted\
Attending this course has been a breath of fresh air for me-it's by far the best development course that I have ever taken part in. The topics covered help you personally in the workplace and also in your home life. I can't recommend this course enough!\
Excellent course Diane is a great trainer and very supportive which really helps to embed the learning, would not hesitate to recommend to all whether you have 2 years of work experience or 22!!\
I would recommend this course for any level of leadership, from MD to shop floor team leaders, also would be helpful for those future leaders who don't yet hold a leaders position.  I can honestly say this course has been one of the most relevant I have been on, after 20 years in management I have been on a few but this one is far above the rest by a long way.  It teaches real values and also highlights the type of leader you are and what you need around you to succeed.  I have taken a lot in to my personal life as well, it has helped me deal with situations with my son and already seen a better relationship to evolve.   Many thanks to Diane, I look forward to working with you in the future.  Simon Ward Technical Manager  Clarks Vehicle Conversions\
A superb course delivered in a fun and enthusiastic manner. Great support from Diane throughout. Highly recommend. \
Fantastic course with an amazing lady......she certainly knows her stuff!!\uc0\u63743 \'fc\'eb\'e5\
It was a great learning experience and opportunity to grown personally and professionally. Thank you Diane.\
Very good course well worth taking.\
Having met Diane, I knew she could bring something great to the management team at Banana Moon. Our remit was to start to turn our management team into a true team. As a growing small business, sometimes we find that we expect people to manage who have not always been given the tools to manage their teams.  She is genuinely interested in the success of our business and its people so she has our interests at heart at all times. Not only that but she brings amazing passion, energy and enthusiasm to the sessions and it transcends through to the team. To see the development in our team has been a pleasure to watch.  The level of professionalism and preparation was beyond my expectations and we will continue to class Diane as a friend to all of us and a friend to the business. She is always happy to help and has helped me through a number of difficult situations already. We look forward to working with Diane for many years to come.\
Diane has proven to be a fantastic tutor & I believe she has helped to make a significant difference to the managerial attitude of myself & my colleagues. She is honest, open & above all else encouraging regardless of where you are currently placed on your training journey. I would recommend without hesitation.\
\
The course helped me dig deep to find the qualities that had faded due to skill fade, the course was delivered in the highest standard possible.  At first I was't keen on the homework phase but as the course went on, it became apparent as to why we had to do it.  This course has made me more focused and motivated in the ares that it highlighted, to me, that I was falling short on. Thank you Diane for making the course enjoyable and helping the Team leaders feel more bonded! \
Diane is a great help and i'd recommend her course to anybody.\
the course was great, i struggle with concetration and the fidget toys really helped me concetrate and Diane's knowledge and training methods are second to none.  thanks Diane.\
Enjoyable course, fun and many things to learn from!\
This is definitely one of the most useful and well put together courses I have been on to date. Diane was fantastic and a great motivator. I have learned skills for life from this course and would highly recommend it and Diane too.\
Diane, you were fantastic! As per my email over the weekend - thank you very much for all your help this last few months! \
A very informative course that makes you think about how you act and think. Diane is a star that pushes you further than you think you would go. But with plenty of support\
Presentation of the course is energetic and engaging. Despite being part of a group, there is always time taken to target training towards everyone's specific needs. Would highly recommend.\
This course was excellent for anyone wanting to develop themselves for the benefit of work and personal relationships. I found the course tutor knowledgeable and all the course content was up to date relevant and helped to enhance my skills to develop within my working environment. I strongly recommend this course to any manager or person wanting to expand into this type of role \
A really great course, you will be amazed by how far you progress personally and will enjoy doing so.  Diane is a great trainer/facilitator, the sessions are always fun, interactive and always help you to raise your bar.  You will be pushed out of your comfort zone but the advantages you gain from doing this out way any anxiousness you may feel. There is a real sense of camaraderie and it is great to see everyone develop throughout the duration of the course.   \
I would highly recommend this course to anyone. Diane is an excellent trainer, full of energy and enthusiasm, and over the duration of this course has made me think much more positively and given me a big confidence boost.\
An absolutely brilliant course - I would certainly recommend it for anyone who would like to be more effective in interacting with others.  I'll be continuing to practice the different tools and approaches learned during this course.\
Dianne's course was incredibly useful, the qualities and skills can be applied to both personal and professional scenarios and I can not recommend highly enough. \
Great course overall \
Diane's course was packed full of practical content delivered by a very energetic coach and at a fast pace. There are lots of takeaways to make use of and our team have benefited tremendously as a result of the course.\
Diane is full of energy & really gets the training over to the group in a manner that everybody responds too.\
\
I found the course content very useful, it covered a wide area of both management techniques and becoming a better management team. The delivery of the content was lively and enthusiastic but always made sure everyone understood before moving on to the next subject. Would happily use DMM again and would highly recommend.\
\
Overall, faultless! As a sceptic, originally thought \'82\'c4\'faanother course\'82\'c4\'f9 but proved wrong after the second session. There is a lot of information and various tools you take away and if implemented correctly, not only makes you look at yourself, your workload and how you do things, but also your teams and what makes them tick. For me, finding out that I didn\'82\'c4\'f4t know my teams as much as I thought I did, was a true eye-opener. Using these tools helps get the buy-in from your teams, staff and management alike, which in turn promotes better productivity and relationships throughout the business, a win-win in my opinion. \
Thank you Diane, the course was excellent. There were so may relevant points to our business which we are already implementing. The delivery and style of the course made so much sense Its been a pleasure Paul Clark Clarks Vehicle Conversions Ltd\
Really good course, difficult at times but very rewarding. Asks questions of yourself and your team. Some really good and different approaches learnt.\
The course was a complete eye opener, it showed me how to treat people closest to me better and also how to deal with difficult situations in my team. The course also taught me key things to help me in my new role as a manager.  It also gave me an opportunity to learn of how other people's roles work within the company. On an other note I thought Diane was very approachable, welcoming and  I learned a lot from her.\
\
Brilliant course - really informative and fun. Diane was exceptional and the coarse material is very useful. Really interesting to hear reports off colleagues too, and a great opportunity to get to know everyone a bit better.\
This was a fantastic course and Diane's teaching and delivery was so knowledgeable and enthusiastic that it was a pleasure to attend every session. The course materials were thorough and provide and excellent reference guide to look back on once the course is finished. The weekly 'prizes' of self improvement books were a great incentive for everyone to contribute. Most importantly, I feel like I am a better manager for having attended the course, and I now have lots of new tools to use to help myself and my team.\
I had been managing a team for 6 years and prior to going on the course had a general reluctance because I felt I didn't need it. I freely admit I was wrong, some of the course content has made a significant positive effect on my team which has both benefitted them and myself. Delegation, effective communication, coaching under performance are some of the areas I improved almost overnight.       Diane's infectious enthusiasm and delivery style turned my initial cynicism into the positive attitude which underpins all aspects of the course. The fact that 12 managers from our business attended following around 30 predecessor's is a testament to the positive impact the training has on a business which continues to grow year on year.  \
Diane is an extremely engaging trainer. I thoroughly enjoyed the course, it was fun, thought provoking and I feel that it will help me become a better manager and leader. Diane also provides support outside the training and she was able to help me through a difficult situation at work. Wouldn't hesitate in recommending Diane to any business.\
An excellent programme, made enjoyable by the mix of fellow students. The course is presented in a relaxed informal way but proves extremely thought provoking. I admit to joining as a skeptic but leaving as a convert ....Thanks Diane \
\
Fantastic course, learnt so much more that I thought I would, would highly recommend this course to others as I know so many people would benefit from it. \
This was an extremely useful course, clearly delivered by an excellent trainer.  Thought provoking activities and discussions in class, and practical self led tasks to do back at work. Be prepared to present every week on what you have achieved since the last session.  It has certainly improved my confidence, communication skills and time management. It has given me the framework to build a better team, delegate correctly and address under performance issues.  \
Diane is a very very warming lady, who knows a great deal about businesses and how they should be run to improve culture. The course Diane provides has helped me in my confidence drastically and it has been a great benefit to myself and the company. \
An engaging and thought provoking programme expertly delivered and facilitated to engender an open and inclusive environment through which personal development could flourish.\
The administration was very good. Facilities were very poor in comparison to other provision in the area.  This lowered the score considerably.\
I thoroughly enjoyed the training and coaching, it pushed me outside my comfort zone and although I am not a manager it has helped me look at myself and how I work with others in a more positive way. \
The room was poor but outside the control of the trainer \
A very good course, the tutor was very knowledgeable about the subject and had a good teaching style.  I enjoyed the course and the materials were good and I know I will use some of the materials in my practice at a later date.\
The administration was very good, the room was unbearably hot or very cold and if there was full attendance quite claustrophobic.  I'm personally not too good in cramped spaces and I know some of the others were uncomfortable.  I don't think it was suitable for the amount of people.\
Diane is a brilliant mentor and helped me through a lot of hard/difficult situations personal and work related. She has given so much support and was always there when I needed advice.  I would highly recommend Diane! \
\
Diane has a naturally inspiring, encouraging, teaching style which makes her Personal Development course an absolute joy to attend. The course is presented in a motivating, accessible way to everyone regardless of age and ability.  I now feel confident in my abilities to delegate, motivate and lead team members in a fast growing business.  Thank you so much, Diane.  \
This training course has been brilliant and made such a positive impact at work and home. It has been a pleasure working with the group and I've met some wonderful people who have really inspired me and given me confidence. Diane who leads the course is fantastic and really supportive - I wouldn't hesitate to recommend the programme. It is useful no matter what stage you are in your career. \
\
Venue - needs stronger coffee (!) and the lights in the ladies washroom need fixing so the bulbs don't continually blow!  Course content - I really enjoyed every session and feel that the on-going learning and putting into practise is now the really exciting and empowering part.  I genuinely can't recommend this course enough for anyone who has a desire to improve self, your peers and the team around you.  Diane delivered the training with a clear passion and enthusiasm for helping to improve everyone in the room.  What a great group of people to spend 32 hours with. \
I have really enjoyed the course and learnt so much about myself, how I work and more importantly how I can improve. I would really recommend the course. Diane is a brilliant tutor.\
An excellent course, all the better for being over several weeks so there is chance to put into practice what has been learnt, for additional feedback and discussion. Diane really knows how to get the best out of individuals with very different backgrounds and objectives. Thoroughly recommended.\
Absolutely what I needed to move on in my career.\
Everyone should do at least one session of this course!\
\
Excellent course, it has really taken my development to the next level.\
I warmed to Diane immediately as she took the time to meet us individually before the course even started.  During the course itself, she made me feel comfortable and relaxed and she was very encouraging. She was so easy to listen to, personable and friendly and ensured we knew she was available to contact at anytime.   I felt she was totally committed to helping me get the most out of the course, the material was excellent and her stories and examples to reinforce the course content were fascinating.    I will now use the skills she has helped me develop and continue using them. I am so grateful to Diane for building my confidence which in turn brings new opportunities in both my work and personal life.  \
\
\
\
Diane was lovely to work with, I found the course really useful for giving me a fresh approach to managing and helped me gain confidence in effectively communicating with my team. The course has lead me to implemented a number of changes in my department that has increased efficiency and the quality of output.\
The course has been brilliant - Diane is a fantastic trainer and the materials that were covered in the sessions have improved my working habits and how I interact with my team.  I couldn't recommend this more highly.\
Diane's course has helped me no end, helping me understand my strengths and that when overused, they become weaknesses. Since starting Diane's course, not only have my team noticed a change, but it has been noticed across the business. Diane has given me the tools and methods to implement to handle my stress better and to help be a better leader for my team.   Diane is thoughtful and really lives the platinum rule ('treating others how they want to be treated') meaning she could teach a room of extremely different people about leadership really effectively. A fantastic course overall, that I think everyone should do and I am so pleased to have been able to be a part of it. Thanks Diane - Now for the life long learning! \
\
The course was excellent from start to finish. Diane's passion and enthusiasm is amazing. I know everyone on the course has really enjoyed it and has obtained a vast array of techniques and knowledge when it comes to leadership and management. I would 100% recommend Diane!\
I took so much from this course that has helped me with my role. It's helped me understand that knowledge is only a small part of what makes you a great leader and  after implementing a lot of the techniques I've found that my team are more motivated, productive and solving problems on their own, to great effect. \
I felt this course has had a huge impact on my worklife and my personal life. I felt so relaxed and enjoyed every minute of the course. \
I'd recommend this fantastic to course to just about anybody. The eclectic mix of course attendees really added to the flavour along with the varied and broad course content. Many thanks Diane, for running this excellent programme!\
I would 100% recommend this course - it's amazing how much you can learn in such a short space of time, and all thanks to Diane.  She is very understanding, has a refreshing way of teaching and is genuinely interested in you and your success.  Diane is also one of the most positive people I have ever met, and makes herself available should you have any questions or need any advice throughout. The programme itself is very interactive, so always keeps your mind working and is definitely not just your average training course. Also, the manual provided is very well put together and makes for a great tool to look back on when needed. Overall, it has been a great experience that has made a big difference to me and my life, and I look forward to continuing to practice my new skills for years to come. :-) \
Well delivered, engaging, ran at a good pace, Diane was extremely enthusiastic, positive and knowledgeable making the course fun and interactive for all. Very inspirational, gained many fantastic skills that will help now and through the rest of my career. Excellent!..\
Diane is just great! I always came away from the course in high spirits and ready to take on any challenges. Not only did Diane engage all parties  but also brought the fun element as well. I would highly recommend the management development course to others within my business. I thoroughly enjoyed being part of such a great course! \
The DMM course provided the team with support, education and inspiration throughout.   The sessions were fun and Diane has a special quality to get the best out of people and get them believing in themselves.   The guidance provided has enabled me to approach my work with more dynamism. I have realised every meeting counts and every conversation counts. I now have a more developed skill set to help me deal with scenarios to do with Mentoring, Stress, Appreciation and I feel I am better equipped to lead. I have always tried to lead by example \'82\'c4\'ec but I feel I am better equipped to do this more successfully now.  I would recommend this course to anyone managing / influencing people who aims to develop themselves and their teams respectively. \
Usually I never give anything full marks, as there is always a little room for improvement, but in this case everything was spot on.  This includes the course handouts & personalised folder, the books to compliment the course, and suggestions for further post course reading.  Dianes enthusiasm and motivation was consistently high across each of the monthly sessions, and this was reflected by everyones desire to contribute to the sessions and coursework.  Each of us agreed that we could see everyone change and improve throughout the training.   This course is a must for every company as they will 'finally' get to understand themselves and their colleagues, which will strengthen any company from within.  A company is only as good as its output from its people.  This training will enable you to improve this. \
The course taught me practical processes I could use to help motivate my team better. Diane practices what she preaches and first seeked to understand us individually, I think this helped her to teach us really well. The course was crammed full of really useful stuff from start to finish, was well presented, challenging and fun. \
Hard work. Well worth it. Great encouragement through out. Well done Diane. \
Diane was an excellent facilitator for the leadership course. I was impressed by how Diane tailored the course to fit in with Concern Group values. Diane's welcoming attitude providing a platform for our group to bond and be able to share a number of challenging work issues. As well as providing informative and interesting training sessions, Diane was always responsive to any requests to support in between sessions. Speaking to Diane on these occasions was invaluable as she provided sound advice to help me re-frame my thoughts when I felt under stress. I would thoroughly recommend Diane's training to any organisation that wished to improve their leaders.\
As the most reluctant delegate that Diane is ever likely to come across, I can honestly say that this has been a life changing experience. I thoroughly enjoy every part of the process but more importantly, my self awareness, confidence, personal and professional relationships have all improved as a result. I would have no hesitation in recommending the course and in particular, Diane herself to anyone, whether they're looking for personal development and/or are simply feeling a little 'stale!' Thank you so much Diane, you truly are a blessing.\
What a fantastic 7 months! The design and delivery of the course was very well thought out and it was clear that Diane had spent quality time with our employer to ensure it met the needs of our organisation and was aligned with our company values. Diane was a very inspirational leader and was very approachable both during the sessions and also available 24/7 in between sessions and also beyond our training ending. I found the 'bond' that our group formed was a real support and the opportunity to hear our peers developments as well as learning new techniques was hugely beneficial. In some cases some small changes/tweaks which have made a huge difference to our working week! Many thanks again Diane!\
Superbly delivered course which has enabled me to develop my leadership and confidence immensely. Diane delivers a bespoke package which incorporated our company values and was always on hand to offer support and advice. Diane is very passionate and I would have no hesitation in recommending this course and Diane to future leaders.\
Excellent course. Couldn't recommend it more. Diane is very approachable and offer valuable 1:1 support throughout. I have learnt so much about myself and the way I work, and it is all thanks to this course. \
I cannot recommend Diane enough. Her skills in delivering a motivating, upbeat course are excellent. You cannot spend a day coaching with her and not be reinvented\
This course has changed my work life, the benefits it has brought to me which I have then passed on to colleagues are priceless. I feel I have been equipped with skills, some new and some improved, in order to make me the best I can be. Diane has both challenged me and been a support throughout. I would recommend this to anyone in a leadership position...........you will not be disappointed.\
I would not hesitate in recommending DMM Training and Development. The course was tailored perfectly to meet the needs of our organisation. On a personal level, I felt that the support Diane provided both in and out of the sessions was invaluable. She was such an inspiration, giving us all the confidence to apply our learning and continue to develop in the future. Such an amazing and enlightening experience! Thank you!\
The course has been brilliant for my personal development.  It has increased my self awareness and and I have improved in areas such as communication, delegation and dealing with underperformance.  Diane has been a pleasure to work with, she has been the most motivating, encouraging and supportive leader and she is always readily available for advice and support in between sessions.  The structure of the course - running over 7 months, 1 session per month - has been useful in helping us to implement our new skills and then reflect on it at the next months meeting.  The group setting is also great as we formed a really supportive open and honest group and we all contributed to each other's development. Thank you Diane!  \
This was an excellent learning experience and the best piece of training that I have been involved in. Diane is a truly inspiring coach and her ability to empower is a stand out trait. I would highly recommend the course to anyone looking to develop there own leadership skills.  The sessions are all interactive. A real positive for myself was the individual involvement I had in each session and the chance to observe my colleagues and their learning.\
Great course by a great Trainer! I would recommend this to anyone trying to get some personal development. You might feel you don't need it but when you go on this course you soon realise so many areas which can be improved!\
A fantastic course that really opened my eyes to different styles of management. A real change for my personal and work personality. Highly recommend. \
This course has literally changed my life!   Having spent previous years working in a bank, we always had similar training crammed into a full day. The problem being, it was information overload and you never got the chance to put the things you have been taught into action. The structure of this course over 8 weeks is brilliant. It breaks everything down into bitesize chunks which are easy to understand. You then go back to your place of work and commit to making the changes. By coming back the next week and discussing the changes made and the results with fellow candidates it inspires you to continue with the programme.  Diane is amazing and  has designed the course to be in a fun & friendly way.  Would recommend this to anyone. Thanks very much Diane.\
The training programme helped me significantly I would highly recommend anyone to give it a go.  Both Diane and Jonathan were both extremely supportive and passionate about the training.\
\
Very useful to do, informative and gets you thinking!! Thank you.\
I have really enjoyed this course and have learnt a lot of new methods from doing it. This course has help me in work and out of work. My Trainer Diane is top quality she is so clear when teaching and full of energy. Diane always made me feel that I could phone he or Email her if I had a problem or didn't understand something. This personnel development course is the best course I have done by far. \
Having attended the Personal Development course in Spring 2016, the changes in my professional growth and outlook I have experienced are life-altering.  Diane is a fantastic coach - calm, measured, professional, approachable, a truly inspirational leader who genuinely cares for her charges. The course itself is professional, thought provoking and practical, not a lecture in sight, all hands on development and learning. I could not recommend the course itself or any form of coaching from Diane highly enough. \
Thank you for all you have done for me and for giving to the tools to be a better person and to deal with every day issues and problems.i would like to thank Diane Moisley mason from the bottom of my heart for all she has done for me George.\
I couldn't fault a single thing about Diane. She showed so much commitment and personal consideration to each individual on the course. I have already praised to high heaven about the course, it's results and Diane to other colleagues, family and friends.  I didn't realise how much benefit I would gain in relation to personal life on top of the improvements I would make in the workplace. I have the upmost appreciation and gratitude for all that Diane has taught me and wish I could do it all over again! Thank you again Diane, it was such a pleasure to soak up your knowledge! \
Excellent course which really opened my eyes and changed the way I think about things. Diane is a fantastic and passionate trainer and really makes the course an enjoyable one. Highly recommended. \
Dianne is an absolutely inspirational course leader and individual in general. Each session we had with her was interactive, fun and inspiring and focussed on all 10 of us as individuals whilst bringing us together as a team and allowing us to help each other develop and get the most out of the course. The course itself, focussed on team leader development , opened my eyes to new techniques and skills to use both in the workplace and in life in general and I have definitely taken away a lot of great advise for the future. \
Brilliant! Dianne is fantastic! Thee sessions were great and very well timed! \
Diane was a fabulous trainer. She created a very open, honest environment in which the group were encouraged to share and learn with each other, not only in our bi-weekly sessions but outside of them too.  I have taken so much from this course that can be applied to both my personal and working life. \
Diane has been an incredible trainer over the entire duration of this course (and I am sure beyond this). She is a very warm, motivating and dedicated lady who has taught all of us on the training very valuable life-skills.  When I missed a session for personal reasons Diane even took the time out to give me one-on-one mentoring. My colleagues and I have all raved about the skills taught on this caught and will certainly continue to apply these to both our work and personal life.  I would definitely recommend this training course.  Thank you Diane! \
I would recommend this course to anyone! It has not only helped me to develop within a professional capacity but also on a personal level. It allows you to develop skills for life which will evidently allow you to be successful wherever you go. Diane was pure joy to work with and to have facilitating our sessions, she kept the sessions interactive and allowed everyone the opportunity to express their opinions and experiences as well as sharing a few of her own experiences with us all. \
Absolutely excellent course. Learnt so much about myself as well as tonnes of techniques for improving my communication, teamwork and leadership skills. Diane is very friendly, helpful and approachable, and has a fountain of knowledge on all aspects of personal and business development. Would highly recommend.\
The course really strips leadership and personal development back to basics and provides a great insight into best practice methods to use within and out of the walls of our working environment. Dianne is a great mentor and really helps to support and deliver the sessions throughout the course journey. \
I have found this course highly beneficial to my work and personal life. All it takes is little changes , doing and seeing things in different ways.  Diane is a highly influential and charismatic person who really makes this course what it is. :).  \
\
\
The course is really interesting and makes you think about training from a new slant. Diane guides the learner through the course content allowing you to learn in a proactive and fun way.\
The course is really interesting and makes you think about training from a new slant. Diane guides the learner through the course content allowing you to learn in a proactive and fun way.\
You can find my blogpost about my experience on Diane's course here http://www.bdbfinancial.com/blog/?p=568 \
Would recommend this development to anyone considering. Excellent course carried out by Diane, which has improved my work ethic and life skills also. Thankyou Diane. Matt Hutton (JTM Service)\
DMM is by far the best training course I have been on. The course content is spot on and Diane is a fantastic trainer. I would recommend this course to anyone looking to improve their leadership skills. \
Excellent course, fantastic, knowledgeable & supportive coach and a great learning environment. Highly recommended.\
Diane, I cant thank you enough for your help and support throughout the course! You have made me recognise things in myself I never would of done and give me great confidence moving forward kicking bad habits to the kerb! Thank you so much x\
Thoroughly enjoyed the three days, highlight was the last day and seeing all of our work come into fruition.  Diane the course leader was fantastic, conducted the whole three days really well, she built trust and respect with each of us.  One thing which effected the group was the unknown time allocated to complete our presentation...everyone seemed to get it done! would highly recommend this course and Diane anyday! \
\
Diane was a fantastic trainer and used various techniques to engage and deliver content across the 3 days. She made the experience really enjoyable and clearly knows her stuff.    Preparation for the final day presentations were a little rushed but the group was fantastic. \
Overall I really enjoyed the course - mostly the section on 'Objectives' it was really informative, simple and easy to follow. It was a perfect sized group and Diane was a great - she always wants to; help, listen and I feel shows genuine care for each individual. My only thoughts on making the course more enjoyable .... would be to extend the time on actually creating the presentation. I will speak to CNG HR as I think when a course like this is planned in,  it would be great if there could be laptops and a training room available ( I am not sure how possible, but I will pass my comments on). But overall I really enjoyed the course. :) \
Its a lot of information to take in but I did really enjoy it. Think there just needed to be a bit more emphasis that that final presentation was more geared to demonstrating teaching techniques rather than the trainees actually needing to be fully competent by the end of the session, as think there was some confusion.  Enjoyed the course and really got me thinking about how I deliver training in the future.\
I thought the course itself was excellent and has helped me to be more confident with public speaking and Diane was brilliant! Thank you\
I loved the course - only thing i wish we had more time to complete the actual presentation. A lot of pressure to make sure it is completed on time. \
I really enjoyed the course provided by Diane. She made me feel very at ease in the learning environment which helped my confidence a lot. The course materials were very helpful and informative. I would definitely recommend this course and Diane to others! \
Very enjoyable and informative, definitely has improved my skills.\
Best training course ever!!!\
I'm not usually a strong believer in training and development courses but this course has actually had an impact on myself. It made me realise certain things about myself and people around me. It made me challenge myself to develop and I have noticed positive changes in the way I think on a day-to-day basis (not just work related). Diane, the trainer, has been very supportive and motivating throughout the whole course (and afterwards). Highly recommended!\
Diane is an amazing trainer her people skills are fantastic she made it really easy for us to engage in team tasks and overcome our fears and nerves. She was able to really underline and identify the issue we were having in terms of team work and spirit. Diane is definitely a game changer.   \
The course was very good it has helped allot of people and put a smile on many peoples faces I would strongly recommend the course.\
Firstly i will start with Diane herself, what an amazing woman! She makes the training fun, interactive and incredibly easy to digest the course subjects!  I wish i could bottle her magic and sprinkle it everywhere! Its amazing watching others develop under her careful training and its pleasure to see people blossom.  For myself, personally, its been the most amazing experience and has helped my development, personally and professionally!  Diane is always ready with her time to help talk any challenges through and help you deal with things in the best possible way.  I am looking forward to working with Diane again soon and making sure everyone in the company has the same opportunities and any new starters going forward.  \
Having taken on a management role having had no previous training, this course has been ideal in providing a toolbox of helpful skills and process to begin to structure my management style and deal with the varied new situations that arise in my new role. The atmosphere that Diane creates is positive, safe and encourages honesty throughout the group. This has been invaluable in facilitating the sharing of best practice and supporting others on the course. I look forward to working with Diane again in the future.\
this has been the best course I have ever been on [and there have been many]. it was refreshing, intuitive, challenging and most of all fun, Diane was inspirational throughout and continues to inspire me to further my goals. I originally thought ''oh another management course'', how wrong was I. if you are contemplating participating in a similar course, either on a personal level or you are a company owner/director looking to enhance your company skills I suggest you call DDM/Diane, it could be the best decision you'll make this year\
Diane creates a great learning environment, bringing with her an abundance of enthusiasm and personal wisdom. When I was given the opportunity to attend the course, I didn't really know what to expect but I have come away with new skills that I can use in both business and personal situations. I would highly recommend attending the course if you want to further develop your management and leadership skills.\
It was fun, interesting, exciting and at times emotional too!  I enjoyed it, improved myself and will continue to do so. Great course, enthusiasm and delivery. \
This course has changed my whole ouitlook on my working and personal life. Hard work but worth it !Thank you Diane!\
An excellent course, well ran , the trainer was full of enthusiasm and very knowledgeable. I would recommend this course to any business.\
Being only 18 months in to my management role I found the course to be most beneficial and easily adaptable to my current working practices. My confidence has improved as a result as have my general management tecniques. I can't speak highly enough of Diane and the geuine enthusiasm she brings to the training.\
Always a bit sceptical going into these type of courses, my views were changed very early within the first session and I learnt a lot of great processes etc. throughout the course. The course curriculum was very well laid out and Diane always created a fantastic environment for keeping everyone involved and entertained. Highly recommend!! \
Diane was very energetic, motivational and funny.  She kept the course moving a good pace so we didn't stagnate on any one area.  She linked the different topics really well and her teaching skills were very good in involving  the group, getting us to think differently - even on subject we may have felt familiar with and she certainly challenged us.  I thought her contact between the months (we did one day each month) was great at reminding us we had tasks to do and to keep us thinking about what we were learning.  I would do another course with her and will be suggesting a refresher in a few years time to my boss!\
Diane, is extremely enthusiastic and a great course leader. The course was both interesting and beneficial to all. I would happily recommend Diane's course to anyone that is involved with managing people or anyone who wants to improve their management skills.  You are guaranteed to learn something and have some fun at the same time!\
Diane was an excellent facilitator and the content of course was great and really opened my eyes to the role of Manager.  I have taken so much from the course and although quite hard work Diane always made sure there was fun involved.\
Trainer was absolutely brilliant along with the course material although I did think some of the exercises became slightly convoluted.\
Really enjoyed the course! Easy to follow, and easy to understand! Putting the techniques into real life trainer is a lot easier now!\
\
As someone who really enjoys training; I found the course insightful; really enjoyable and I gained a lot from the three day course\
I had a great time on this course. Great energy and delivery by Diane.\
For me personal the course was a missive benefit , I really lack confidence and this really helped me build my confidence and also understand how to turn the focus so it's not on the trainer all of the time (amongst many other things, this was just one key point for me)\
Very helpful course, made me realise things about myself and think about how I should and do act. Every session was interesting and informative.\
Did a lot of academic learning in last 20 years but this was my first personal development learning experience and I loved it so much, Diane is great and I enjoyed it and learned and improved myself so much highly recommended.\
I really enjoyed the training which I received from Diane, she helped me improve my personal skills to a professional level. The course which I was on consisted of 6 meetings, on the final meeting I was required to do a speech on what I have learnt/taken in from the course and also what I personally got from the course to help me with the future. Would highly recommend the course.     \
\
\
I really enjoyed this course from start to finish. Diane is a wonderful trainer and you can tell she is truly dedicated to everyone on the course. It was a bonus to have met a wonderful group of people and it was truly inspiring to hear everyone's stories as well as to see how far everyone has come over the weeks. I would recommend this course to everybody within my company, I believe that everyone can benefit from it. \
The course was brilliant from session one. Each week challenges you to evaluate and reconsider your approach to many different aspects of your working life, all with the aim of improving how you react to situations. I learnt so much from the course, developed for the better and couldn't recommend it any more highly. Thanks again Diane!\
The course was absolutely fantastic and well worth doing, it really makes you have a different perspective on work life. Diane is a fantastic trainer and I wouldn't hesitate to recommend her courses to anybody. \
\
I only wish it could continue, I've got so much from the course but there's so much more to learn and soak up.  Diane is so inspirational and a great asset to anyone wanting to progress in life!\
I found the course to be very interesting, the materials provided were excellent and Diane is an inspiration! I learnt many things that I use in my managerial role on a daily basis.\
\
A very enjoyable management training course with practical sessions on understanding ourselves and enhancing our relationships, people skills & effective communication, getting to grips with worry & stress, teamwork, gaining buy-in & co-operation, & effective delegation - hard work but very worthwhile as I now feel equipped to progress to the next level, thanks to Diane's support and encouragement. \
The course was of great help to me when stepping into a new ro9le of management - People management is a challenge in itself and this course came at a good time as the content was relevant to scenarios I was facing at the time. \
Diane's coaching is always first rate and she brings out the best in others whilst developing their leadership qualities.  MPM have had multiple leaders on the programme and I would recommend Diane (DMM Training & Development) without hesitation.\
\
Fantastic course. I came away brimming with new found knowledge and confidence.  Dianne is one of the most enthusiastic and interesting people I have ever met and even though the course has ended she is only a phone call away for whenever I need either advice or a pep talk!\
I found this course to be very useful in terms of team building and it's delivery by Diane really facilitated this.  We were able to deal with real work issues, our individual way of dealing with them and benefitting from the input of our colleagues.\
\
Diane was amazing! Really supportive the whole way through. I was new to the management role and thought the content was perfect and I grew with confidence throughout the course with my new skillset. Thoroughly recommended! \
I really did enjoy the course and feel like I got a lot from it. I think I would of liked more time to explore issues as sometimes felt like we were up against the clock. As I was enjoying the topics being discussed, I would of liked the opportunity to discuss them in even greater depth. Obtained lots of practical advice that was able to bring back and use them in my role as Sales Team Leader.\
\
\
I found the course really useful as a newly appointed team leader. The content was really helpful and has been referred to since finishing the course. Diane is approachable and shows an interest in how things are going and is always on hand if needed.\
Diane delivered an excellent course, her method of delivery ensure everyone was fully involved and felt valued.  The content of the course was great and fully covered what I needed particularly the delegation session and I regularly refer to the manual for useful advice.  I would recommend Diane without hesitation!\
The course was delivered in a friendly way, and the content was extremely useful. I found it went at a nice pace and didn't feel overwhelming. It was also a great way to bring our team together.\
This was my first training course and Diane has really set the bar high for future courses to follow. Her engaging presentation style and interactive content kept the sessions engaging and thought provoking. Her support in between sessions was also invaluable. If you truly want to develop and learn new skills than I strongly suggest having a look into the DMM Training & Development Course. \
I have already recommended the course to other people. The content was amazing - always engaging and made relevant to our industry.  \
\
\
I found the course extremely beneficial - it gave me a real confidence boost! \
Really enjoyed it and found it useful for picking up on skills I was lacking in\
Not all content relevant me in my job not the fault of the trainer as I knew this before joining the course. \
\
\
The course was great, content was relevant. I would have liked to dive deeper into some topics, but I understand that that would compromise the breadth of the course.\
Would like some more info from an internal PM point of view.\
\
\
Location was good but during the courses a lot of times when I grabbed a cup or plate they were not proparly cleaned. Like the diswasher didn't do it's job good. I mentioned this on the second day to the person responsible for the location but maybe you as a company could also mention this.\
The course was great, the trainer really dynamic and I loved the stories and role plays. Really satisfied. Some problems with the temperature in the room (AC) and it was a bit tight in the lunch room and training room, not much place with the chairs...\
I thought the course was very well designed and delivered. a good mix of theory with exercises and real world examples. \
An excellent targeted, intensive 3-day course on product management & marketing for technology companies. I have been working in bizdev, pre-sales, product management & marketing roles in software for the past 19 years, and I took a huge amount from this course. The content was class; the teaching methodology of application to real situations was very valuable; the delivery from the tutor was excellent; the takeaway materials and templates for applying the learning in practice is a great help. I have been raving about this course internally since I came back :) You can expect a few more attendees from Murex over the coming years! Thank you Paul\
You're getting really high grades from a swede here...\
I think that the training was spot on in all aspects. The trainer was engaged and included us all to interact. The facilities was well thought trough and the food was really good. The material provided will help me in my work going forward as a product manager and I really do hope that I will have the time to reflect and try to start implement some of the models provided.   Thanks for a brilliant three days course!\
Thank you the course was very thought of and presented in a very good way\
Very insightful course. The training was delivered at such a pace to make it very engaging and had a good amount of activities to drive home the takeaways from the topics of discussion. I'm new to product but I now feel equipped with the tools I need to do a excellent job. \
The course was excellent, from start to finish. Ian was an excellent host and his enthusiasm for product management really shone. I would not hesitate to recommend this course to my peers who are either starting out in product management or feel like they are lacking direction or clarity in their role. The course really 'sets the scene' - at a level which is appropriate - and will provide good ideas to take back to the office and implement. The course moves at a good pace and there are plenty of opportunities to discuss ideas and topics with Ian and the wider group. \
\
The course was extremely well prepared and Louise came across as extremely knowledgeable in all the areas we covered. The course was very fast paced and we did seem to skip a number of slides / pages from the course booklet. Louise did explain you have trialled this course over 4 days previously however I feel an additional day would have been beneficial.\
Overall, the course was very good with a lot of insights about product management. We did a lot of practical exercises and study cases. The materials provided were very good. The instructor, Paul,  was fantastic. Location, resources, and learning materials were all top notch.  My only negative point would be that the course was very business driven (pricing, pitching, stakeholders, etc). I felt it lacked a bit of technical side regarding product management. For example: how to use PM tools. There was a slide with a list of tools (Aha, Jira, etc) not no insight into them. Also, there was no in-depth information about product marketing.  Overall: a very good course and I will recommend it! \
Excellent course for both starters and more experienced Product Managers. Very useful in broadness. Food for thought, Very relatable to daily practice.   \
\
The course was certainly one of the best trainings I have every taken. The way it was structured, the quality of the training delivery and the materials used. Also the pack of documentation and the USB with templates provided at the end of the course was a quality value add. I would highly recommend this training and could no doubt see any product manager, whether new or experienced, benefiting greatly from this training. \
\
I can easily say that this was the best course i have ever attended. The content was extremely useful and Ian and Paul were amazing. I would definitely recommend this course to everyone.\
\
Would be nice to have more excerises, f2f ones.\
\
\
I felt the course was very interesting and was a good place to start, coming from a background with no product management experience. The content and tools will be useful to use in the future and hopefully improve the ways of working within my business. One point that is not neccessarily a negative is that by having some experience in the job before attending the training, I feel that this would have been beneficial as some of the topics could have been more relatable and therefore could have played a more active part in some discussions.\
\
\
An excellent course run with great energy, humour and professionalism by Ian. The pace was spot on with the numerous team exercises adding value every time. A great choice of venue helped enormously. In addition, walking away with an armful of useful and well produced material was very appreciated. With the content and delivery this course was definitely value for money. Many thanks.\
I feel that the course was well structured and the learning materials were excellent. The opportunities for engagement were great and I thoroughly enjoyed the groupwork exercises - I would recommend that Product Focus continues to find new innovative tasks like these wherever possible throughout the course sections. Ian had a good breadth of experience and I really enjoyed his presenting style. The venue was fantastic and really contributed to the overall success of the training - I am sad to hear that future participants will not get the opportunity to visit Wallacespace in Covent Garden since I hear it is being converted into flats.  \
Definitely the best course I have been on. Clearly very well designed and though out and delivered superbly. My only additional thought following some reflection is that I would have liked an element, even if brief, on ideas for managing the 'hecticness' of this role. It was clear from others' experiences that the daily mad dash and the overlap into one's personal time is basically the 'norm'. The latter of these is a real issue for me personally with doing this job (as an example, I'm awake a lot even I shouldn't be as my brain is buzzing with problem solving for the current challenges going on). This may not be the case for everyone and some will manage better than others, but I think some reference to the lifestyle and possible mental health challenges would be a good addition to the course - with some  sharing and/or recommendations of what has worked well for people. The 'turn off your push email service' example mentioned was a good example - maybe that onto a mini section withing the personal effectiveness module? Aside from this, 5 stars all round. \
\
Very informative training. Great location and excellent coach. Only the airconditioning is still a challenge. \
I would really like if some studies on hardcore industrial business is also done and shared. My business is very old styled industrial business. When we talked about software and hardware side of product management, i don't think hardware business covers the essence of industrial business completely.  But despite that, i loved the course and will try to apply the things i learned in my daily practices and specially for my strat planning. \
\
Great course! :)   location could be improved. \
I have been recommended by my business partner and I do not regret the course. Louise is a very knowledgeable and enjoyable person. Those 3 days allowed me to put things is order and to give a real process to follow. Well done!\
Great course. Slightly more comfortable chairs and AC would make it perfect!\
\
\
The course was extremely well organised and professionally delivered. The content was thoughtful and the supporting materials were great to take away. Overall, I was very impressed by Ian and the whole 'package'. My only criticism is that it didn't delve into the 'tech' side of Product Management quite as much as I'd hoped. Business theory is one thing, but making tech products a reality requires a lot of software engineering and systems integration that is often very hard to understand to people from non-techy backgrounds.\
I really enjoyed this course, It was not like the usual 3 day death by power point agenda.  The engagement through out the 3 days was spot on, making sure we all got involved helped me process the techniques that we had learnt. I can defiantly on board the skills that we have learnt and in fact they have been used this morning. I would recommend this course to any aspiring product Manager. \
I enjoyed the training course immensely, learnt and reinforced more than I had anticipated despite having been a product manager for 10 years.  The presentation style was very engaging, easy to understand and absorb and was well executed, reassuringly sticking to the agenda and timings.  The venue chosen was novel and conducive to learning with a good classroom size, clear screen and excellent presentation media. The topics covered were well thought through with a good flow and thought provoking examples for many topics.  Great engagement through provoking strong teamwork and relationship building with classmates. I liked that Ian made some great suggestions for where various tools and techniques could be applied once 'back at work', providing pre-made templates for this. The post-training materials provided were great quality particularly in terms of content and furthermore opportunities for further certification and networking were also offered.  10/10 to Ian and the Product Focus team!\
Phil did a great job with real life, personal experience from Product Management.  I think this aspect is extremely valuable as coming recently out of the role gave him much more credibility as an instructor.    Wish there was more time for sharing of best practices with other participants.  When we did it was incredibly beneficial - especially knowing you are not alone with your challenges.  :)\
Very engaging course and trainer with good content and resources provided. Lots of good practical guidance to take back to my company to introduce into my way of working. Venue was great and easy to find.\
fresh and challenging atmosphere; good entertainment factor; good timing especially for sharing  personal experice and Q&A\
The course as an overall was informative and high in content, but although it was all crammed into 3 days it never felt as if it was rushed through. Andrew kept the tempo and mix of theory and exercises just right.  Facilities were excellent, we were well catered for and looked after well! The food was healthy and delicious which was an added bonus.   If you are Product management novice or experienced, this course gives you so much, and you come away feeling armed with knowledge and expertise that will not only benefit you personally but the organisation you work for.   Thank you Andrew, and to everyone involved. Keep up the great work!!!\
\
\
Great course. Only the scrum part could be shorten. Most of the attendees know scrum. Give the opportunity to spend more time on real pm stuff\
Fantastic course, that not only met but exceeded all my expectations.\
\
There is one thing which has not been covered by the course: It might seem to obvious but it ist not: Why do businesses need PM at all? What are they missing if they don't have PM? What benefit do they have if they implement it? ... Answers to these very first questions might be very helpful when talking to the 'non-PM-colleague' and explaining why PM is doing what it's doing and why it is not doing what it is not doing ...\
This course provided a very practical overview of Product Management useful for beginners and also as a refresher for the experienced. By the end of the first Morning I had a case to reconsider and look in more detail at the way my product addresses different market segments. That one item was worth the cost of the course. More followed with each topic through the three days. Andrew is a very knowledgeable instructor who engaged with all the participants in the course, bringing something relevant to each of them and drawing out the shared experiences as examples.\
Great Course. It was a please to be there.\
\
sometimes there are hints in the book for templates on the USB stick. It might help giving the file name.\
Very strong content and many useful insights for Product Managers, even with many years on the job. A great mix between lectures and interactive exercises!\
Excellent training It could be worth providing it on 4 days, in order to increase the number of exercices and group work. \
\
I really cannot rate this course highly enough. I definitely feel that attending this as I have done right at the start of my career in product management will stand me in good stead to get into some really good habits. The tools provided are absolutely invaluable and I can already see how I can implement changes in the way my business does things. \
\
As a starter in product management, I received a lot of informations and gained a little experience because of the exercises. \
This is a brilliant course which covers the breadth of Product Management space in 3 days in a lovely setting. Ian kept it very interactive and fun and there was plenty of exercises to solve problems and learn on the day. I personally would have like a little bit of depth in some areas like Product Roadmaps and planning but I understand the course attempts to cover the wider Product Management space and not going into depth on any area considering time limitations. Overall, this is a great starting point for someone starting in or new in Product Management space.\
While the real-world, historical examples based on Blackberry, Vodafone and engineering manufacturing products were easy to relate to, more emphasis on and examples of modern-day technology-based innovation would have been welcome.  More detail around some of the design processes and options would also be of benefit.  Generally, a very well thought-through and worthwhile few days.\
\
Excellent course. Hoping to attend future events run by Product Focus!  The only comment I would have is that I think it would be useful to have some more real life technology examples/use cases to work through. The reality of technology is that it can be complex so these help us show more about how the models have been put into practice at leading organisations.\
\
\
It is amazing that we were able to cover such a vast amount of material in 3 days. It may be also useful to have one day follow-up workshops which focus on specific areas of the process model. My objective was to obtain a reference framework for the Product Management Domain and this was very well received.  Thank you \
\
it was quite a challenge to get at the location, but that seems to have been only my challenge coming from a town nearby Utrecht\
\
My personal objective was to remind myself of where product management and project management can sit side-by-side without duplication of effort.  I am and have been in my previous role in a place whereby, based on my 25 years' experience in FS, I am having to act as both a product and project manager, and funnily enough I returned to work this morning to be told I will be managing the GDPR programme for the business!  So, the course help refresh my memory on some of the idiosyncrasies of product management and also validated a lot of the knowledge and experience I have been trying to embed into the business given their reluctance, as a small company, to embrace full end-to-end processes.  Thoroughly enjoyed the course and will be looking out for other Product Focus output.  \
Really good course and facilities - best course I have ever been on! \
\
\
Excellent in all aspects.\
I would definitely recommend the course to others. I felt where organisations can sometimes carry out processes without any set procedure the course enables participants to understand best practices from experienced leaders which can be used to put add more structure and justification for product management activities.   The content was very strong and the journals and memory sticks are useful. I suspect I will use the templates provided as I spend more time in the day to day element of my role. I felt that there were many optional exercises, one way to improve the course could be by reducing the number of optional exercises and increasing the mandatory group exercises so people can share ideas with other product managers.  The assumptions exercise was very similar to a real life exercise which we recently carried out internally within the business.   I felt the final exercise was particularly insightful and enjoyable.   Robbie \
Very satisfied with the course.  \
For professionals who are looking to refresh or expand their level of knowledge within product management and product marketing, I would definitely recommend this course. This training course gives you next to theoretical insights and repetition also very good pragmatic excercises which make you rethink your own role and how to fill it in even better. All this is presented by a highly experienced and super passionate trainer who besides that is also a great speaker! \
\
Great training. Perfect value for all the content we got. \
I personally would have even more appreciated if we could have discussed some more examples which are dedicated to automotive topics. \
It was good chance to understand the PM job go through this course, the course is broad training for PM, but it is a shortned to deeply undestand the meaning of whole contents and an analysis tool. \
I was hugely impressed with Andrew and the training he delivered over the course of three enjoyable days in London. It's refreshing to see such a well-prepared and professional course, with content that is both relevant and practical. The combination of exercises and presentations was ideal, as was the size of the group. Highly recommended.\
I have already recommended the course to colleagues.\
I'd recommend this course to anyone new to Product Management and also to experienced Product Managers who may want to brush up on their skills and working practices.  There was a lot of ground covered over the three days and paced at a good level.  Both trainers are experts in their field, able to draw upon vast experience from previous Product Management roles, but also able to use that knowledge and experience in a learning and development capacity.  Fantastic course, great guys!\
\
I thought the course was  very good at showing the breadth of the Product Manager role and giving examples and tools that will help to apply this knowledge in a practical way.\
This was by far the best course I have ever attended, the level of detail, materials and delivery was top notch!  Andrew and Matthew were engaged & obviously cared about the content & making sure the attendees understood the concepts - in my experience this is rare with courses as the tutors have often delivered it thousands of times previously and become bored in their delivery. \
\
\
\
It was a fantastic course and exactly what i needed for my role content was spot on and tech focused the venue was excellent\
The course indeed covered key areas of product management and product marketing, giving an excellent overview of relevant roles, tools, and all aspects of the product lifecycle. Discussions were insightful, and group exercises helped deepen the understanding of various methods and techniques. I'd recommend the course to anyone looking for a broad introduction, but also those looking to further solidify their knowledge.\
The course was to the point for me, at a great venue and very good catering.\
\
All in all a very good course, well presented and facilitated. The course is extremely broad in reach and yet also very detailed with lots of helpful tools and ideas presented and covered all aspects of Product Management. \
All in all a very good course, well presented and facilitated. The course is extremely broad in reach and covered all aspects of Product Management. \
\
\
\
A great 3 days. Didn't know what to expect but was hoping to leave with increased levels of motivation and enthusiasm for a relatively new job role. In this regard the course was a success. \
The course gave a good broad overview of the different facets of product management as it is in EE. Very much enjoyed and got benefit from the product competitive, positioning, pricing and strategy elements. As an experienced project manager new to product management, I didn't find the launch management or personal performance parts as beneficial - however I think they are relevant if someone hasn't had experience in that area.\
In summary, this was an excellent and wide-ranging course that has help 'fill in the gaps' of my knowledge and given me greater confidence in my abilities.\
\
The course was very helpful and had a right mix of content and exercises.   Logistics could be improved in terms of better seating and display options. \
\
The delivery of the course was excellent, and the course materials provided are extensive and of high quality. \
\
\
Finally a course where the content, trainer and most of all the way the training was given, was excellent. Ian really felt the course members, full of energy, humour, a lot of content, very nice exercises (alternating!)\
\
Great course for those with one-three year experiences as a PM. The stared tools is awesome, because now we could define the mandatory  tools to have for each course. Take care with startup hype: - The Business canvas and Lean canvas have different goal (business and startup in customer development phase). Take care not to mix them in the course. Maybe the business canvas can have the business canvas as way to explain the whole idea.  It was fun. Congratulations. \
The content was comprehensive and covered a large range of material in three days. This was backed up with short, focused exercises as well as the longer project on the last day to hammer home some of the ideas. While being a great overview of Product Management as a whole, there are so many different areas that it understandably lacks depth in some of these. However, book recommendations enable further learning and reading in specific areas. Ian presented in a friendly, informal style which worked well with the size of the group. His enthusiasm and experience in the subject area was obvious. The venue was very well suited. The only minor issue was that it was difficult to move around the room due to the number of tables. Food was excellent and the availability of sweets was dangerous.\
\
\
\
\
roomt itself was good but noisy because of other trainings going on. discussion with other course members was really important and useful, huge advantage of such external trainings Ian was a great presentor!\
Hospitality was excellent, the venue was great. The course content was good in providing me some reassurance that what I have done so far on my new journey into Product Management is on the right track. It was also good in that it has armed me with some methods and techniques to expand my skills and apply them in real life when the time comes. The USB, journals and what is now my Product Management Bible are very much appreciated and I have already started putting them to good use. The training was excellent, pace was just right. The group activities were good and relevant. It was a great opportunity to meet with others within the industry and understand how Product is structured within their organisations.\
Well organized and engaging. The content and interaction with the  students was very good. I didn't feel the need to check my phone\
Very good training and trainers! Interactive, full of best practices, tools and good reminders! Many thanks, Julien\
\
Everything was absolutely marvelous. The venue completely exceeded my expectations and the course itself was exactly as I pictured it.   I'll certainly recommend it and for myself I'll try to take other courses/workshops.  Thanks again. Great initiative!\
Very interesting and complete course on product management and the role of a product manager, which is often not clearly defined by companies. Ian Lunn is a very dynamic and experienced trainer, and he gives a very fast pace to the course (no time for getting bored!)\
\
I don't really have any negative points. The course was well structured, well delivered, covered all relevant topics and the venue was top notch.\
I'm a new product manager, the course gave me an overall view on all possible aspects of the course. Useful methodologies were explained to do a better job.  Less interesting, for me, was the Personal Effectiveness section. I kind a missed a section on risks: types of risks relevant for the product manager, ways to identify, monitor, mitigate...\
It was a great course that covered all aspects of Product Management.  It was quite challenging in places, especially the section where we covered business cases and the calculation of profits, return on investment, net present value etc and the merits of Agile vs Waterfall  Hopefully the templates will assist for the creation of real life business cases   \
Overall an excellent course, thoroughly rewarding and enjoyable. Ian is well versed in the subject and very knowledgeable and makes the learning experience easy, fun and relevant.\
Excellent course and have already recommended to colleagues\
Great course, should have done it years ago. Just the right mix between theory and practical work. Came back with clear actions for improvement.  \
The course was brilliant. I was new to product management and it helped me to really understand the premise of my role and where my responsibilities begin and end. The materials and workshops were very useful and helped to apply the knowledge you had just been learning into an applied and real world context. Plus the materials which you are able to take away with you and use in your day-to-day work are very valuable. The size of the training was good too, I feel it was the perfect number of people to allow you to bounce ideas off each other and have healthy conversations, without it being too many people or too little to facilitate this.\
Wallacespace is really a nice place to be, really cool compared to hotel meeting rooms. Timing between working in the class and the breaks is also ideal to keep concentration along the day.\
\
Focus was a little too much on software products than complex system products , but was useful for most messages\
\
\
I really enjoyed the course, the first day was great and really informative, but then over the three days it felt like the course slightly lost it's momentum.\
Unfortunately I missed the last day of the course due to illness; I was very disappointed to miss it as I found the course very helpful! I work on internal products - products use by internal staff; I found it most interesting that even internal products benefit from product management.\
Overall a very good course, condensing almost everything we do as product managers into easily digestible modules to be covered over 3 days. The course isn't offering anything revolutionary, instead providing an accurate portrayal of life in the product space and highlighting tools and techniques to improve productivity. Enjoyable and recommended. \
Excellent course. Has given me a lot of food for thought, and ideas for where to take the role at IG. We had an unfortunate timing with the restructure at IG, which means that a few of the traditional Product Manager responsibilities have been stripped out of the role, however the course also provided tools to help increase influence and redress the balance. Thanks, Andrew!\
\
I enjoyed some elements of the course for example, the cluster method worked for me. However, I felt that the speed element did not suit my learning style. The course assumes every individual's learning style is the same and ignores that people work at different pace. I didn't think the speed at which we were expected to answer the questions reflected the way in which we work. We work under pressurising conditions but still have head-space to collect and process information at a decent pace. \
This was a good course and there were some very good techniques that I will use. Most of the exercises were good and you could relate them to your work. The number span exerciises in a timed period were possibly not so useful.  The course was very full on and I personally enjoyed all the exercises. The trainer was excellent and made it fun for all. \
\
\
I enjoyed the course, lots of participating although I felt it was quite intense, especially part 1. Lots of exercises to do, perhaps too many. I found it interesting and learned a lot how to adapt different strategies to be more accurate with inputting data. This course is fine for those who like to work under pressure but could offer an additional, more relaxed course for those people who perhaps are less confident particularly when you have to work under speed/timed exercises. It certainly made me concentrate!\
It was fun if gruelling\
Found the course really interesting and identified ways I could work to be more accurate. Trainer was really engaging and kept me interested.\
Good, some useful information \
\
\
\
\
\
\
I found the course very good certainly worked you hard with the tests but makes you think about how you are looking at data and recording it accurately \
\
\
Very enjoyable and I have got new strategy\'82\'c4\'f4s to use\
\
\
Very good course, with some interesting tips to improve accuracy.\
\
\
Interesting & fun\
\
Really enjoyed the course. Tutor kept it flowing and didnt get boring. \
\
Hard to summarise because I don't feel I learnt much (I already read numbers in 3's & read aloud in my head etc) but just because I didn't learn much doesn't make it a bad course.  Nice to know I am handling data in the best way possible!\
I really enjoyed the course and I found breaking down unclustered digits into 3's, particularly useful.\
\
It would have been useful to have something more practical about managing distractions. The course content is relevant but needs to be made applicable to a safety context for my organisation. Really useful day. \
It was a great course with some very helpful and had some useful information \
My main problem is on the part of Personal Touches and I would like more detailed skills, tips to improve in that area. \
\
\
\
Fabulous course, excellent trainer\
Excellent never thought I would be writing so many numbers in such a small space of time\
I thought this was one of the most interesting courses I have been on.\
It has been a really useful day: thought provoking and interesting. Lots of practical application and very relevant. Thank you Sue. \
Enjoyed it. It got me thinking and I learnt some new things.\
A very interesting and thought provoking day. There are plenty of practical tools & techniques to help me work most effectively.\
5 Star! This course goes beyond interesting and develops you with structure in creating and checking documents for accuracy. \
This ADS workshop is truly wonderful. It has given me several tips and tricks to ensure my written communications are more accurate. \
A truly enlightening day. Super useful and great fun. Everyone who works with documents needs to go on this workshop. Thanks Sue for your patience and lovely voice. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
Thank you was great\
\
Even split in to 2 half days It\'82\'c4\'f4s a very long session. Very difficult to sit still and quiet for such a long period. \
Really enjoyed how interactive the sessions were. Because of this I have learnt a lot, and found it very useful \
Great \
I personally feel the course was too long. It was informative but too many exercises. It was intense and I left with a headache.\
\
Enjoyable course and getting involved, testing own accuracy.\
Thank you Sue. Most enjoyable and productive couple of sessions\
\
Great course and Sue was a great trainer who presented the course clearly, concisely with a friendly and enthusiastic manner. Thank you Sue!\
Great course, this should be rolled out to everyone in the company\
I really enjoyed this training. Sue has a very pleasant voice and I feel that this has helped me a lot with daily tasks and made me realise when I make mistakes. Learnt a lot from the video regarding eye jittering/eye po. Thank you.  \
\
\
Sue was a lovely trainer and made it fun as well as being knowledgable. The training session was very useful and will help me daily in my work routine going forward!\
\
After discussions with other participants, it appear that I have the feeling that some people will continue to follow their former methods. To me, open-minded spirit is the first key to this kind of course would be effective.\
This was a really enjoyable and beneficial course. There was a good dynamic among the tream and with the trainer. \
\
Very interesting training with nicely trainer\
Quite interesting\
Karen's intervention was really great. Over these 2 days what I learnt will be very useful  In a near future.\
The trainer was extremely well engaging the attendees\'82\'c4\'f4 attention and clearly explaining all the aspects of the exercises and techniques used to enhance accuracy. I would surely recommend any course led by her.\
\
Perfect teaching, Karen is a great trainer. \
\
\
Great course\
\
Wasn\'82\'c4\'f4t expecting that kind of course at all when I was enrolled and received my inscription notification - and it turned out to be very surprising, useful and quite fun actually ! Learned a lot of useful tips and will definitely use them on a day to day basis at work and out as well. Karen was lovely, very clear and overall it was 2 great days of training ! Thanks a lot\
Good course Good exercices Very nice instructor  Thank you \
\
\
\
I found the course interesting and useful but I would have liked to spend more time looking at errors relating to text and doing exercises to improve that.  We did seem to spend a lot of time on numbers.  Thanks.\
The quick assessments were a bit nerve-racking to do at first, but the instructor made it pleasant.\
Very good \
Was really helpful and I now know how to check documents properly before they are sent out \
A Very informative training session. I now feel more self aware and can recognise the various areas that I have often overlooked previously.\
It was useful and relatable to the tasks in my job role. \
I thought this workshop was very useful and informative. It was also interactive and fun.\
Very informative with tips I will use going forward\
It was very informative and interesting. I learnt alot. \
Really opens your eyes about all the small and minute mistakes you can make on written documentation. Great course! \
It has enabled me to develop a structured process when checking written documents conducted by me or others.\
I found the course really interesting and interactive. I feel  I am able to take away some tips that I can use within my work.\
Eye opening course - everyone must attend! \
Really engaging course content that I will be able to use throughout my day to day activities. \
Enjoyed thoroughly! \
Great day - very engaging and highly useful! \
\
Really interesting day. Took lots of great tips and ideas away, which can be used in my everyday life. \
\
Enjoyable and useful.  A little slow to get going.\
\
Great course content - apologies for the late arrival !!!\
\
\
\
Brilliant! Really enjoyed it\
\
Interesting course, and trainer kept our attention throughout! Really impressed, and would recommend. \
\
AM vs PM makes a big difference - majority of work I find is done between 9am and 2pm  \
\
\
Really interesting thoroughly enjoyed. And I real eye opener \
Greg Fradd was a great trainer. Very clear and made it enjoyable. \
\
\
\
\
\
The course was great fun, really well presented and the trainer engaging. Well worth it!!\
Excellent trainer.\
\
Course is quite lengthy and repetitive - it can be shortened \
\
I thought the course was very enjoyable and Greg was a fab trainer however a little too much hand written work for my liking, probably would\'82\'c4\'f4ve preferred something online as my work is all computer based. \
I found the course quite repetitive and would have got more out of it in a small session as concentration did start to lack. The trainer was great and up beat which stopped you from staring off in to space.\
Interesting course,  some useful tips but far too many repeat exercises and overall far too long.\
\
Course could have been shorter as a lot of the information is repeated. Personally I felt this was not very beneficial to me but I can see how it may be more applicable to other people in other roles. A lot of the tasks in the course are things which are taught at a young age and would only benefit people who struggle in this specific area.\
Excellent and fast pased.\
\
Great trainer and great delivery. The course is interesting but I don\'82\'c4\'f4t think it\'82\'c4\'f4s particularly relevent in an IT driven world\
All my team attended a few months ago and enjoyed it, I attended and completely agree and think everyone would benefit! Great course and will improve my skills at work for sure\
Thank you \
\
\
It\'82\'c4\'f4s good to take time out of the day job and brush up on skills we take for granted that we think we have and think we use daily. But this has refreshed my subconscious!!!\
Course was mandatory, pre course score was 100%. Condescending and patronising in some of the exercises (do we really need to do the same thing 100 times). Maybe pre course should be done before actually doing the course and pretty much a waste of my time unless of course this is a smoke screen for some sort of MI5/MI6 recruitment (what other purpose does transferring 15 digits in 3 seconds serve) in which case I'm an obvious candidate for the job! Greg tried hard to keep people interested etc but could make it more competitive by creating teams and prizes or more interactive. \
Most of the techniques are already in use. However the teacher was engaging and kept things interesting. Alot of repetative work which i imagine is part of the improvemebt method. I want to thank Greg for the clear and interesting lesson.\
Enjoyable course and it was insightful. Will certainly improve my accuracy using these methods.   Only negative is that there are too many tests. \
There are some good tips to use, I am not sure how relevant is during the course to give very short time to check as at work we always need to double check the data \
All course material was completed on paper, all our work is completed on computer\
Taught some good techniques to improve accuracy and speed at the same time \
I thoroughly enjoyed the course! The exercises really helped to stay engaged in a way that other courses haven\'82\'c4\'f4t necessarily in the past. I will certainly be using the skills I have learned in day-to-day working life. I liked that we weren\'82\'c4\'f4t using our computers as it not only gave us a break from the screens, but also allowed us to think outside of our usual tasks. I also think splitting it up over two days really helps to stay engaged and enjoy the course more. I thought Greg was great, very clear and knowledgeable!! So thank you to Greg. \
\
\
Very good \
Very useful ideas for improving accuracy. Greg was a great explainer and expert!\
Found the session really beneficial and have taken away a lot of tips and tricks which will help me in my role \
\
\
\
I would have liked more word based competencies and not so many number based exercises, as my team are more at risk from data breaches that accountancy errors.\
Very enjoyable training that opened and literally lubricated my eyes.  I will use the power of 3 and super-concentrating in all walks of life.\
\
Good course and some good tips given in terms of concentration spans / advantage of Three\
I enjoyed the training course, I Found it very helpful to be able to use the techniques shown in my working environment on a daily basis. I think, to re-train and change your original methods of working, and to adopt to a better, methodical way, is both more accurate and time saving. \
I felt that the content was relevant to my work and that following some of the processes that the trainer spoke about will hopefully enhance the quality and accuracy of my work.  \
\
Excellent course. Quite intense could maybe have done with slightly more time, but i certainly expect my accuracy to improve as a result of the training. Thank you. \
Course was well run. Found parts interesting and will take parts away with me. \
\
\
\
\
For myself - more listening skills may have been beneficial. Don't really work with numbers other than phone numbers and giving out reference/crime numbers\
I found that the course was well presented and that the content was accessible .\
\
Very amenable guy, easy to listen to and very clear in what he was saying \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Fantastic course. Very interesting and certainly increased my concentration and some good tips with regards to accuracy. Well worth attendingm. Trainer was clear and precise and made it a most enjoyable session.\
\
Still unsure about the concept think it\'82\'c4\'f4s mainly common sense... but did learn a couple of techniques. \
\
\
\
\
\
Probably more a comment for TFS. I found the course useful but for me I was hoping to learn techniques to help spot annomiles in data / reports eg that doesn\'82\'c4\'f4t look right.....\
Great course\
Excellent! \
I think I will use some of the techniques at work in particular counting in 3s!\
\
\
\
Some good tips given\
\
\
Very useful \
\
\
\
\
\
I hope there will be further courses - will definitely send rest of my team !\
\
Very good course, made me realise how easily errors can be made!! \
\
Excellent \
\
\
\
\
Good course\
\
\
Very good presentation and noted improvements on accuracy and attitude to data. \
\
\
\
\
\
Very good course, well pitched. Good venue, excellent food. Room was cold though!\
Great facilities and venues\
\
\
Amazing food and treats \
\
\
\
The second half is more difficult and the amount of assessments might be too much as it was getting exhausting. Overall fantastic training with lots of enthusiasm!\
Too many exercises, difficult to focus especially as I had work to complete quickly during the break at my desk. 2 breaks might be better. \
The only thing I would say is that day 2 is quite intense... so many tests and after a while it gets a bit monotonous..  Thoroughly enjoyed mind u... best  relevant course I have been on. \
Well done! \
\
\
I have rated the course overall as 4 because I think the day was too long and too intense, almost like an exam situation. It could have been wrapped up by 3.00pm, as we had already covered a lot of the timed tests and exercises by then. I found the techniques quite useful and will probably follow these principles in my day to day work.\
Very engaging and interactive day. The pace was kept upbeat and positive and it allowed me to take on board the hints and tips provided. I hope to refer back to the manual and put this into practice at work and at home.\
\
\
\
\
\
Great course. Would have been better for me to be with other colleagues dealing with data analysis rather than data input.  Mostly work with formulas that check data patterns to identify errors. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Nothing really against the course other than I don't feel it applied as much to my work as my manager thought it would. Greg was very good and kept the course interesting \
Greg was excellent, very expressive and encouraging of discussion with being 'too much'. Although the content itself was fairly basic, the tips are easily adopted in real life and great to put context around why things are.\
Very informative and specific to my role. Practical tips that will help in day to day work, which is better than abstract concepts.   Didn't cover much about high volume checking, which is my biggest accuracy issue.  \
A very good course - enjoyable and Greg was very engaging.\
Really well delivered and structured training course with some very helpful insights and a knowledgeable trainer. Would definitely recommend to anyone wanting to know more about improving their accuracy. \
This was a really good course. It was not rocket science,just really good practical ways of improving accuracy\
Good course and very thought provoking. Would recommend to any colleague who uses or enters data.\
\
Engaging and fun. Lits tp take away with me for both professional and personal life! \
\
I don\'82\'c4\'f4t know when I have attended anything more pertinent to my job and as enjoyable to boot\
\
Really enjoyed it, and was relevant to work \
A thoroughly enjoyable course that makes you think about how you deal with data and how you can improve accuracy.  Greg was an excellent trainer\
Well structured and resourced course with the use of both a screen and participant manual.  Useful tips provided.  Trainer was knowledgeable and kept our interest throughout the whole course.\
\
The name cards are a great idea so the trainer can see who he is talking to.\
Really enjoyed this course. Very interesting. Course tutor made it fun.\
\
As I work from home and all the information is on the screen I would be unable to apply some of the recommendations given and were possible always copy and paste details to ensure correct transfer .  However the exercises  were good in between and it showed that to triple check data entries for errors.\
Although the course was good, on the whole it wasn't really relevant to my job. I think it would benefit front line staff who need to take the correct info to enable us to do our job more efficiently down the line.\
Day 1 was very intense and as I wasn't expecting it to be, I felt that the tests came a bit too thick and fast.   I could not concentrate at all when I logged back into work after the course had finished.  Day 2 I felt a lot better, knew what to expect and went home with a clearer head.   It all makes perfect sense but  a lot of our work relies on other people to take the right information in the first place and at present they have not been on the course.  I have suggested that they go on this course in the section above.    \
Excellent delivery. Greg was very engaging. The whole course was very enjoyable and will be useful. \
Whilst I found the course quite testing at times it was enjoyable and I feel I have benefitted from attending it. I will keep referring back to the leaflet to remind me of the tips received during the course to help my accuracy improve\
\
\
Decent instructor very clear therefore I was able to understand the module. Presentation was fairly boring overall it was good. \
\
\
\
\
Great course. \
Top man\
Top man really helpful\
Very informative, a must for any person using water at pressure. \
Found Simon a very knowledgeable man and put everything across in an easy way to understand and follow .  Many thanks Simon \
\
Great trainer, fully explained everything I didn\'82\'c4\'f4t understand. Made me feel at ease in the classroom when under pressure.   Fantastic course and trainer. \
Very good course Instructer was clear all around nice man enjoyed the course and instructor was very clear \
\
Brilliant\
Good laugh enjoyed it  Thanks Simon \
Very good course nice environment and not just powerpoint.\
Good informative course.\
I thought Simon was an absolute credit to his profession and so knowledgeable,his patience was immense and I would certainly recommend his teaching methods and courses to anybody ..I feel better prepared for my job having done his course \
Really good highly recommend,\
Course very useful and taught more than just drain survey coding, learnt things I didn\'82\'c4\'f4t know before also found about new systems of work etc aswell as law and responsibilities of drainage. Simon was very helpful throughout. Very good trainer. Course was better than expected.\
I\'82\'c4\'f4ve learnt lots more than expect also learnt new things whilst on the course. Very helpful.\
\
Good course, well taught.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very good \
A very interesting & informative course, presented extremely well by Simon. \
\
Very informative course & very well explained \
\
Good\
Brilliant and very informative \uc0\u63743 \'fc\'eb\'e7\u63743 \'fc\'e8\'aa\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
In depth information provided by trainer \
\
Enjoyed the pratical assesment\
\'82\'c4\'ee\
\
\
\
Good course shame there was no  buffet \
\'82\'c4\'ee\
Very good course, brilliant instructor\
\
\
Brilliant instructor\
Good corse \
\
well presented and explained \
\
Enjoyed the course learnt quite a lot from it\
\
Excellent course very good tutor \
Simon was an Excellent informative instructor and a well presented course was had ..thanks..\
To many Scousers on the course can't get a look in for the biscuits and sweets\
Great mentor\
Excellent course , great tutor very informative  relaxed atmosphere \
\
\
Brilliant mentor Simon\
Could do with some lunch provided \
\
Good course overall, no complaints.\
\
\
Very knowledgeable instructor.  Refreshing to have an instructor with actual on the job experience... \
Lunch would have been nice \
Great understanding \
\
very good course\
All good \
Had biscuites \
\
\
\
\
\
Simon has excellent knowledge in this criteria, massive help in helping me passing my hwpj course \
\
\
very good course thakns\
Simon made sure we was all on the same page,  and had an excellent knowledge in hwpj (high pressure water jetting)\
Cake \
Needs cake\
\
\
\
\
Simon was obviously very clued up at the subject,he made it very interesting and kept it quite casual\
The course has tought me lots of useful tips about the cctv surveying industry I would recommend to anyone that uses cctv surveying equipment Simon was amazing at teaching us all of the content and could answer any questions or queries we had All in all a great course Thank you \
\
Excellent, informative course. Instructor very approachable and knowledgeable, and willing to help.\
Useful \
Good\
Useful course\
Very Good trener\
Very good \
Nice person, good teacher\
\
Brilliant, the teacher is very polite e clearly speak!! \
Excellent courses \
\
Brilliant\
\
Very good\
Course was so good and helpful for me.  Thank you Garet \
Amazing teacher!\
\
Good clear course and articulate trainer. Would definitely  recommend to others. 5 star.\
\
Clear and understanding. Was helpful to explain if dont understand. \
Garet brought great and proffesional training . Highly recommended\
Good to work with explains things clear,smiles all round,\
Excellent trainer, very informed in subject and made the two days enjoyable. Thank You\
Very good \
Excellent\
\
\
\
\
\
Smashing course. Lovely trainner\
\
\
Nice trainer easy to understand and talk to and good at explaining information needed\
Garet was very clear with explaining of the course. Very helpful to help if did not understand anything. \
Great day, very informed and easy to take in information\
\
Good to know the procedures for Risk Assessments\
great experience, Garet very helpfull\
All good\
Great training session with a great trainer.\
\
\
\
\
All good, thanks Garet.\
No probs - a bit too much paperwork in my view but did its job.\
Done the renewal course a few times now and this was as good as the rest.  Thansk.\
Great course, very informative and interesting \
Nice course, everything smoothly, Interestingly run, good lunch I recommend\
I get from the course everything what was nedeed. The launch and venue were great and 5 minutes drive by car to get to the training. Booking was easy \
Excellent course \
\
Excellent course and beneficial \
I found the course really helpful and hope it helps me later in life \
Yes learned a lot today great course food good train straight to venue booking no problem \
Location information was confusing \
\
Found valuable the information about the morals in the industry.  Venue was beautiful, cosy, delicious lunch. Booking process was very easy.   Thanks  \
Great course, very informative and interesting \
\
Thanks for this course. It was helpful for me.\
\
Garet very good teacher\
Good teacher enjoyed the course \
Course give me new skills and knowledge. Trainer is very friendly and explain all aspect of safety \
\
\
The courrse was very good and I got a lot of knolowge.\
\
Great course. Easy to book, easy to get to.  Our instructor was able to relate a vast  past and current, real World experience to the course which made it interesting.  The format was engaging and created a good learning environment.  Relaxed but enthusiastic.  Job done and good after course support to realise goals of course. Thank you. \
Great course, part about responsibilities and effect of not working safely driven home by good use of video content and trainers subsequent questions. Really got me thinking.  Risk assessment activity encouraged new perspective on potential hazards\
Great course, part about responsibilities and effect of not working safely driven home by good use of video content and trainers subsequent questions. Really got me thinking.  Risk assessment activity encouraged new perspective on potential hazards\
Will recommend\
Well delivered and found it interesting throughout. Particularly enjoyed Risk Assessment and regarding the consequences for getting it wrong and injuring someone.  Thank you Simpleducks, would recommend.\
More intensive than I had expected but was a good course.  \
Great training  Would recommend   Nice friendly instructor\
\
I really enjoyed it all especially the moral , financial and legal reasons learnt a lot from it . \
The course was well presented and concise. I enjoyed the hosts vigour and  intellect. The venue was very nice and the lunch provided was excellent.  Overall a thoroughly enjoyable experience and I shall be recommending this course and G (Garet) .\
\
The section on fire and fire extinguishers was really useful and also the lunch was amazing and really tasty \
Doing a risk assessment was great. Lunch and venue was great. Garet was great too!\
Enjoyed it, well informed and interactive course.  Lunch was provided and enjoyed it fully.  \
\
Great focus and used real life examples. No preaching just informing and educating, found it very useful showing both employee and employer's point of view well balanced and of course included legal requirements.\
 We good instructor would recommend with out a doubt \
I thought that the depth of knowledge and the excellent ability to deliver it in an interesting way made this one of the best courses I have ever been on and frankly in more courses were delivered as well I would definitely be more interested - simply fantastic \
Our trainer had good background and experience and seemed well qualified to deliver course materials via personal experience. This helped to understand application in real world examples.\
Garrets on-site experience made a big difference with course. He has a good approach in his teaching methods, this kept us all interested and engaged. \
Good informative course Fast paced And interesting\
Very good course. \
\
\
\
\
\
Very informative and knowledgeable, great methods of teaching, easy to relax and learn with Garet. Felt comfortable throughout the course and had no difficulty keeping up with the speed of the information. Communicated very well and made the whole group feel very welcomed. Lunch, coffee and water was provided for free at a great location. Would recommend this course to anyone.\
Explains everything very clear and in dept, if you unsure about anything the teachers explains until it\'82\'c4\'f4s clear  Great place to work and learn and would recommend it to anyone who wants to do their ECS test\
I\'82\'c4\'f4m glad I booked through simple ducks, very organised and helpful from the first call all the way through the course.  Explained everything great and made my experience a good one. I\'82\'c4\'f4d definitely recommend. \
Top man very good instructor\
Brilliant course with a brilliant instructor, thinking about getting into health and safety as a career change as a result \
Very helpful trainer.  \
Instructor made everything clear and materials used to teach was easy to understand \
Very good course. Makes me Think about safety\
Good stuff. The fines for getting it wrong\uc0\u63743 \'fc\'f2\'a2 thanks Garet at simpleducks, great course - risk assessment was good. \
Course is very important to know how to work safety everyday, the correct equipment e personal protection we use in our work. \
Thanks Simpleducks really enjoyed the day and a pass is good\uc0\u63743 \'fc\'f2\'e3\
Great trainning\
Great course and excellent didactics. I was very satisfied.\
The course help me for my safety and for safety of my friends and family. Very good and helpful \
Helpfull\
Very good!!! The course was very helpful for my safety and for safety of my coworkers \
Learning abot risk asesment and videos I enjoyed. Definitely recommend \
The course very helpfull and improve my knowledge abou how to work safely.  The aubjet was very clear. \
The course improve my knowledge, i will work safety in future.\
very knowledgable and helpful trainer  Good location, I\'82\'c4\'f4m happy with training outcome.  100% will recommend \
The course is been very good and clear about the explanation of the subject.  Improved my self for health and safety. \
Very good!!!\
\
Excellent food and adequate parking \'ac\'a33.00 for the entire day on Ringo App! \
\
\
Garet was awesome \
Very good\
Brilliant days training with Garet! Great SPA course and can\'82\'c4\'f4t wait to get my ECS card out so I can start work. Thanks a lot Garet. Highly recommended course.\
\
On site parking would have been good\
Struggled booking the course initially as editing my personal information on the website wouldn\'82\'c4\'f4t work so I had to create a new account  Garet was great - really enthusiastic about the subject and clearly had a lot of knowledge. However, I would say that it would be better to sit the test in the morning as the first thing and if the person fails, then undergo the days training as I believe that most will pass without the training and it takes up a large amount of time that could be used elsewhere.\
\
Garet was fantastic teacher. However I think the course is a lot longer than it needs to me and could be shortened down with the same outcome at the end. \
Enjoyed all of the course.  Would recommend.\
Enjoyed CPR.\
Enjoyed the importance of surveys + CPR & AED Training.  Garet taught well.  Enjoyed it.  Learnt alot, more than expected.\
Very enjoyable! Really enjoyed CPR then Garet threw in De-fib at the same time.\
Trained well.  Very polite and gave enough time to take info in and wasnt rushed.  Overall, very happy.\
KURS BYL NA WYSOKIM POZIOMIE. UZYSKALEM WLASCIWE INFORMAJE NA TEMAT PRZEPISOW BHP\
The training is excellent. Recommend.\
It's good\
Kurs byl prowadzony bardzo profesjonalnie. Ciesze sie, ze moglem dostac taka dawke wiedzy od prowadzacego na tematy, ktore mnie interesuja.\
The course was very informative. It gave me a better knowledge of the heirachy of health and safety and it's procedures. Excellent trainer. Very knowledgeable and has experience of actually being on site so can relate to a lot of matters first hand.\
Before the training I was a bit nervous thinking that I may not understand or may miss important information.Well that soon disappeared when the training was provided.The information given was easy to be taking in . I felt very comfy and I advice everyone to take this course with no hesitation .Thank you for your training day.\
Very impressed! Good teaching abilities, very friendly inviroment.\
I found the course very good and very easy to understand. Garet Is absolutely very good at his job. More then happy that i chose Simple Ducks.\
Very useful and interesting cours. Not just information. Cours change minds regarding safety at work. Highly recomend\
Very please with course and personal assistance. Will definitely recommend to colleagues.\
\
\
The assessor is very professional . He knows what he is doing.. Good explanations.  Highly recommend..\
The course is amazing! Covers everything I  need to know to pass the final test. It\'82\'c4\'f4s well equipped with refreshments and lunch! The instructor is fully qualified and easygoing person. Thanks Garet!!!!!! \
The course was intense, Imformitive and productive \
I thought Garet was very welcoming and taught very well, nice class.\
Very informative, instructor made it very easy to learn. Also facilities were perfect. Would 100% recommend\
Good course\
Guys, this course is excellent. The instructor is professional and really goes above and beyond. The course is very well-structured, safety is explained in details (lots of explanatory videos and photos with real life examples). I would strongly recommend this course with Simpleducks to anyone interested.\
Was easy to understand good venue, \
Really good venue  Garet come across really well \
Good knolagable insructor\
Excellent course, good venue, very good instructor.\
They are patient and they explained perfectly. Thank you \
Course was very informative I would recommend course \
Nice atmosphere, really good location, nice studying enviroment, great trainer. Learned a lot!\
very good course helped me achieve what i needed good facililities aswell\
Enjoyed the petrol day and the practical exercises. \
Good course, good trainer, enjoyed lunch, would recommend.\
It was really good I will recommend to everyone \
Instructor was well informed and relatable. Course focused on the key objectives and conveyed it clearly.\
Top notch professional and absolute brilliant trainer. I will recommend it 101 times anytime, any day. \
Well understandable \
I found the instructor very helpful and would highly recommend this course to anyone. \
Garet is a good teacher\
Good course, useful to get input on risk assessments in particular. Well presented with relevant examples and a relaxed atmosphere.\
Good course, professional trainer, would recommend.\
interesting course. Gladly recommend to everybody.\
\
Very good easy to understand will recommend. \
A very informative course, well structured and implemented.\
I recommend these courses with a lot of confidence.I spent a fantastic day and and learned many new tings...\
Great guy. Very informative and knowledgeable. Would highly recommend to Any and all. Nice venue even though a tad cold. \
Very well structured training. Reccomended.\
Information provided was very helpful. No complaints. \
Reccomended. Practical training.\
All the information was very helpful. No complaints. \
\
Thanks for this day,and I strongly recommend this cours because I learned many things about my safety at the site. The teacher was very kind\
An above average course thanks largely to the trainer.....Garet obviously has a passion for health and safety and our welfare and this shines through....would recommend \
Genuinely thorough instructor. Very knowledgeable and very immformative. Definitely reccomended\
Genuinely thorough instructor. Very knowledgeable and very immformative. Definitely reccomended\
Very good.\
\
Did enjoy this course, was really informative.\
The course was very good, in very undeful condition, nice prezent and all facilitis\
\
Genuinely thorough instructor. Very knowledgeable and very immformative. Definitely reccomended\
Great day, presenter , location and course met my expectations, thank you \
Genuinely thorough instructor. Very knowledgeable and very immformative. Definitely reccomended\
Genuinely thorough instructor. Very knowledgeable and very immformative. Definitely reccomended\
Course all good \
Garet was a good instructor, not rushing through anything, making sure everything was understood all at a relaxed pace.\
Very informative course with a very knowledgable instructor who has years of experience in the field of health & safety \
Great course, execelent trainer! \
Excellent I thought from start to finish the content and facilities were first class.Garrad is an excellent communicator with clear instructions.\
Good course \
Garet has been great from start to finish! \
\
\
\
\
It was a very plesent and informative course.  \
Very good. Brilliant teacher. Learnt a lot from this course \
Well presented \
Course was very well presented and the trainer was very proactive and clear throughout the training.\
Very well presented and executed!!\
excellent course ,good for ecs card highly recommend \
\
The teacher Garet was very friendly. Everything was wonderful. \
An excellent course I will be recommending \
An excellent course I will be recommending \
An excellent course I will be recommending \
I enjoyed the learning process.My trainer Garet was warm and really knows his stuff.\
Well presented and well explained would recommend this to anyone looking to obtain a Ecs.\
Very satisfied with the course, all then information within the course was relavent to the material and objectives. Trainer was very well manaured and spoken, very nice and friendly. \
Very professional. Learn a lot. Worth doing.\
Interesting course really opened up the health and safety side of the construction sites. Garic was a really good teacher explained everything in a simple manner. \
A1 course would recommend to others. \
Very good course. Coordinator very personable and helpful. Well done. Only knocked one star off as no onsite parking.\
\
Garet included practical activities as part of the training provided which made the experience enjoyable and engaging\
\
Very good course with amazing venue. I'm very pleased... We had good coffee and sandwich included... :)\
Very happy with the course. The venue was amazing. Really reccomend.\
Thanks\
Trainer was great, very friendly and helpful\
Good venue, nice food, good transport connections very good tutor.\
The training was absolutely understandable and the venue very nice and clean  Thanks \
Garet is a really nice guy feel like I learnt a lot would definitely recommend him to others \
Fab course highly recommended.  Thank you \
Well presented. Garet explained and made it very clear. \
Great training, course content and delivery.\
Great teacher  Easy learning\
Very good course , Garet was very knowledgeable and engaging I enjoyed the group participation elements \
Well presented course. \
Great job. Very clear and easy to follow and understand. \
\
Defenetley recommend the course ! There is free parking on site, you get free lunch and the course itself is not hard at all. The trainer is lecturing very well and made all the course content easy to understand witch made me pass the exam without any issues at all ! \
I.m very pleased with the course, really friendly atmosphere, enjoyed it.  I recomend to anyone who needs it\
I'm happy to find this site . A nice location  , with all facilities you need , very good assessor. Highly recommended for the assessment and the location \
The lecturer was knowledgeable & experienced with what he was teaching.  Gained vast amount of knowledge today, & it was not boring. \
The best training course without doubt.\
Very helpful. \
Perfect location easy to find and also the trainer couldn\'82\'c4\'f4t have been better.\
\
The course was Informative and in depth and the venue was excellent!\
\
\
The course notes only helped in certain areas. \
\
\
This course has been very good and very intense at times. Compared to other courses it is considerably longer for the same certificate that would be my only negative comment.\
I am really happy with my course studies STL level 3, Customer service was very helpful,reliable.  The person called Rob kirkham was always polite,efficient, happy to answer and explain to me so well any of my queries. I found the course very interesting and gained lots of knowledge , i was flexible doing this course on my own speed and time, i strongly recommend to enrol for this course. I m absolutely happy and proud that i have finished my STL Level 3 course. Thank you so much for all your help.\
I would have no hesitation in recommending this course.  I hope to do another in the very near future \
\
This course was very good but a lot harder than I expected. Once I got into the swing of things and I knew what form was for what it was much easier. I am please I did this course and gained lots of valuable knowledge. \
\
Overall I found the course to be good for my needs as an employed teaching assistant. I didn\'82\'c4\'f4t feel that the tutor support was overly helpful as when I had questions these were frequently answered with a \'82\'c4\'f2please refer to course handbook\'82\'c4\'f4 comment. Having already got a first class honours degree, I felt unsure as to how much detail and depth was required for this course and found myself over-thinking it and it wasn\'82\'c4\'f4t particularly clear how the work should be set out and the expectations of this. But overall, I\'82\'c4\'f4m glad that I did the course and completed it. \
\
Tutor support was good when needed.  The course study material was very good.   I would have liked the instructions on layout/inserting evidence, and diary entries etc to be clearer or a clear example given. Could the question/assignment evidence form (front cover) be made online and editable so not having to hand write it and scan in?  I have a colleague that is doing the level 3 diploma course 1 night a week at college and it is staggering how many more questions the distance learning course assignments have. She had 9, I had 22. Due to this I am unsure whether to do another distance learning course.  \
\
The work set was very easy to understand and complete. The tutors are very helpful in answering any questions. I would highly  recommend to others.\
\
\
I found the course difficult at times but with help from my work colleagues in my employment at High School I found the course very interesting and informative along with providing me with the qualification to further my knowledge and career.\
\
A very good course , lots help in the book and all the team in study house . Worth the money spend on it . Very happy and satisfied. \
There were a lot of spelling mistakes and grammatical errors in the course notes.  I found it ok doing the course by myself but it is tricky to work out what evidence to include and this is where it would have been easier if I had been at college and an assessor would have come into the school to observe me.  Having said that, doing it via open learning meant I could do it at my own speed and turnaround of assignments was excellent!   Also appreciated the support I was given in obtaining my certificate in time for me starting work!\
The coursework was a nightmare. There is no real reason you should not be able to submit assignments in any order as each educational establishment is different and you may be in a position early on to complete one of the later assignments, submit and get marked. Also why you enclosed 99% of all the necessary info in the pack you sent in the post but then leave out a handful of essential pieces of information (insisting we go online to the student area is just ridiculous and unhelpful). Within the coursework you should not say...here is an example of a professional discussion when you clearly want students to use that particular template...saying example gives the impression we can use it as a guide and create our own version! Also why is it that if you ask a question you don't get a straight answer...tutor goes round the houses so much they don't actually answer what you need to know? This coursework was more intense than the four year degree I completed and if I hadn't paid to do it, I wouldn't have continued with it. Despite passing this course I wouldn't say it has made me feel confident about gaining employment within a school (and that is saying something as I am already a qualified FE Lecturer!) \
The course questions were unnecessarily repetitive. Some of the information provided was out of date. In my view the course was aimed at first time teaching assistants with very little in the way of deeper learning for the more experienced. In a positive light it is always good to review your school policies.\
\
Very quick turn around with assignments being marked, would recommend! \
I have recently completed The Level 3 Diploma in Specialist Support for Teaching and Learning in Schools. This was a very interesting course with lots of information. There were a few problems along the way though. You are basically left in the dark with regards to anything you don't understand. I wasn't sure how to layout my first assignment and this resulted in me sending the assignment numerous times only to have it sent back to me with cryptic style messages which offered no help and guidance. Also at the beginning, trying to contact Study House was a bit of a nightmare and I was spoken to abruptly on the phone on a couple of occasions and even had my partners IT skills questioned (he works in IT) when the problem was not my end! The course material was in depth but had lots of spelling mistakes in the manuals. Overall I am glad I did the course, it was a lot of hard work and I basically lived college work for a whole year so and I had put in way over the hours suggested. I did do my course alongside a  friend which really helped. I now have a recognised qualification which led to me being offered a TA job the day after my course finished so if you are very motivated then I would go for it!\
Some of the material was out of date\
\
\
I thoroughly enjoyed the course.  After submitting units, the marking was prompt and efficient, allowing me to progress quickly through the coursework.\
\
I cannot fault the course content or materials at all, they were really helpful and informative.  The only issue I would say that when you are distance learning it would be good to have others doing the same course online that you could be put in touch with, to discuss ideas etc or online tutorials about certain subjects.  I found that my tutor wasn't really a tutor and more of an examiner, only there to mark my assignments rather than a port of call if I had any questions.  \
\
My course notes contains everything I needed to complete my course. The communication between me and my Tutor was excellent; all my questions were replied same or next day in the morning. Customer service was reliable, excellent, very helpful. The staff I spoke on the phone were well - trained and helped me to choose the best course  (as I hestitated between level 2 and level 3). Payment was also easy to make and required me to pay for it in 3 step, saved me from paying the whole amount straight away. I'm absolutely happy with my STL level 3 course. Thank you so much \
I would appreciate a bit more detailed information regarding some assement's tasks.\
I found the course tough at times. I felt like a lot of the question were the same as what I had already answered. The information provided was very useful. I enjoyed the overall experience. If in the future I decide to do another course I will definitely go with study house again. \
\
\
\
Study notes a little vague for those without previous classroom experience...but my tutor was very helpful and study house were very efficient with any queries I had.\
The online course was just what I needed! It fitted in with my job and my family. I couldn't attend a classroom based course due to childcare and my work commitments so being able to study in my own time was perfect! I enjoyed my placements and would highly recommend this course to anyone wanting to do become a TA3 and SEN\
\
Really helpful course, helped me to learn everything I needed to know. Really helpful tutor who points you in the right direction if needed.\
I found this course very interesting it has helped me to meet my goals though challenging  at  a certain level. thank you so much for the support.\
My tutor was very efficient and provided useful and encouraging  feedback.\
Good course\
I felt some of the tasks were a little repetitive either within an assignment or in different modules within the course. However, that said, the materials were good and the process was very straightforward. The tutor was prompt with marking and giving feedback. \
I was extremely pleased with the depth of the content & the course exceeded my expectations as my first online distance course \
\
\
Covered all areas necessary and in great detail\
\
\
Great book resource, but multiple spelling mistakes and sub titles not always on the same page. Questions way too similar. Roughly 5 questions sometimes on the same area makes the essays a bit tedious. \
Rob Kirkham was very helpful. My assignments were assessed quickly and feed back given in a positive encouraging manner.  Only one small issue....some work submitted by PDF from my Mac was unable to be read by my tutor as files were large.\
Tutor, Chris, supported me throughout the course, very impressed with the advise and support given. Feedback on assignments was useful, informative and quick. \
I throughly enjoyed this course as it was both challenging and informative.  I work in a primary school as a Teaching Assistant and I learnt a lot about school legislation and procedures which will be invaluable during my career, as much of this is new to me and I have not currently had experience of this at the school so far. \
\
Good guidance,valuable course\
Very interesting course. Excellent materials to help\
I found a couple of the questions a bit confusing and not sure exactly what I was being asked to write about and had to clarify with my tutor\
I felt that the study material was relevant, interesting and useful.  My assignments were marked and returned quicker than I expected and my tutor provided helpful and supportive feedback.  I have already recommended this course to a couple of my colleagues.  Many thanks!\
I think the course overall is good; the course notes and the assignment questions on the whole make sense but there are sections where it is not obvious which sections relate to which questions.  There are also sections that contain a lot of information yet barely any of it is needed to answer the questions. A big bugbear of mine is that there was no guide to the length of the answers.  This is not the first course I have done but it is the only one where there is no indication of the number of words/amount of detail required.  I also found it hard at the start of the course to know exactly what a Candidate Report or Witness Statement actually meant and, judging by the number of people who contacted me via the internet, I was not alone. On the whole the course was good and I found a job part way through where the fact I was taking the course counted in my favour.\
Very good course with a lot of ground covered. Would highly recommend. \
I found this course to be very comprehensive and it covered all of the topics that I needed to know. I found the tutor very helpful and the assignments were marked and feedback was provided very promptly. \
\
The course helped me to settle in my placement and to carry out my job professionally. However, I spent far more than the 180 hours as there is a lot of research and thinking to do rather than simply writing down the answers. Nonetheless, I would do it again as it  for some is the only chance to get a degree when you are not really flexible at daytimes.\
I found course notes clear and could contact tutor with questions at any time.\
\
All the questions for each assignment you could obtain from the book provided which was very comprehensive.\
\
\
I completed the course this month. I personally liked the course and the tutor. The course was not as easy as i thought it would be but tutor chris was very helpful. My work was checked and feedback was given in 2 days. \
\
\
In assignment 5, there was not enough information in course work book for the tasks asked to complete.\
 Very well structured course.  Very quick online marking/feedback good support when needed. I really enjoyed this course and I highly recommend this course and distance learning to anyone!!  \
Some of the content was a little repetitive. \
\
\
\
Tricky to get started but once first assignment has been marked you have a much better understanding. Meeting with other people face to face would be good but the convenience of an online course suited my situation\
\
Absolutely brilliant course. I learn so much and it is definitely will help me to be ready for any first aid action. \
Amazing, definitely recommend this to any one as it saves lives \
Great course, would highly recommend to anyone looking for first aid training!\
Very informative -thank you\
This training course was very helpful for me and overall it was a good refresher.\
\
\
helpful and really good\
\
\
Very informative \
\
\
\
Amazing thank you \
Very informative and detailed. Trainer had very good knowledge and got information across very well. \
\
Really interesting and informative \
\
Very informative interesting course. Thank you.\
Fantastic course. Good pace very informative. \
Very informative easy to listen to memorable\
\
\
A very good training day. Our trainer instilled confidence in us. Pace of the day was excellent \
A very friendly lady. Presented training well, a fun day. Thanks \
This was the second time that I have booked this course and I was so glad I did. It was a good combination of practical and theory - which suited my learning style. Kyrie was really approachable and made the course fun and accessible to all. Would highly recommend Surrey First Aid. \
Very informative, not just brushing up on previous courses and common sense, but new information and techniques \
Very helpful. I feel more confident to deal with First Aid issues. \
Brilliant staff Kyrie  and lasely very helpful and full of knowledge good training venue definitely recommend my friend \
Parking and facility easy to find. Trainer lovely and friendly and went through all the important things such as CPR, making sure you get some practical experience. Would recommend the course to anyone. \
Fantastic course, lots of time to ask questions and relate making it extremely enjoyable yet informative. Feel confident about having the right knowledge for my role in childcare.  Thank you Kyrie! \
Surrey First Aid delivered a fantastic course. Holding a course on a Sunday is really beneficial and the venue was easy to find with ample parking. The trainer was fantastic, going in depth with the course content and making sure that all information was clear and ensuring that all trainees understood the content. Many thanks\
The trainer easily help us to explain how the first aid to be done when unexpected circumstances happen \
The course was amazing and great fun! Kylie was amazing, and I would recommend this course to everyone,  Flora Pitt \
Practical an easy to follow and understand. Great participation from trainer and definately a good course for young childrens 1st aid\
\
Lovely, plain speaking course. Kyrie is great. Made learning relaxing and fun. \
Excellent trainer, really encouraging!\
Excellent trainer, easy to understand and now feel very confident \
Fantastic course and would totally recommend in the future. \
Really useful information presented in a way that was easy to understand \
Good pace, pleasant staff good venue\
Friendly helpful trainer good session \
Most informative course I\'82\'c4\'f4ve attended. Fantastic Trainer very easy to relate to and understand.\
Enjoyed the day \
Excellent course, facilities and presenter\
Great teacher \
Very good\
I couldn\'82\'c4\'f4t find the venue from the postcode but hey were very helpful.  Trainer was great - the best SFA course I\'82\'c4\'f4ve been on\
\
The trainer was very informative and knowledgeable. He used new equipment  which he didn't have 3 years ago such as the choking vest to demonstrate what to do if someone was choking. He also taught us about the different types of epipen and how to use them which was very useful. \
\
Really engaging and practical - definitely not death by powerpoint!  I feel much more confident that I can help in a first aid situation - with adults AND children.  I'm having trouble accessing the online part of the assessment but I'm sure someone will be in touch soon.\
Brilliant course.  Practical and not boring.  Definitely would recommend to anyone working with children.\
The training was very informative and simple to understand thanks to Mike . I am glad that I was able to take part in the training which enabled me to broaden my knowledge and to gain experience in First Aid. I would recommend to attend this training if you are interested to develop your first aid skills. \
The course had everything we needed to learn, and Andy was very professional and friendly in how he did the training.\
The course was very hands on and engaging and the two trainers brought a real breadth of practical knowledge.\
\
\
Both instructors were extremely knowledgeable, a very good course. \
Both instructors were extremely knowledgeable, a very good course. \
The Trainer was very good, and communicated the learning in a light-hearted and fun way. It was good to hear of the new changes in first aid practices. \
\
Good \
Great course- you kept our attention throughout. Good team.  Many thanks  \
\
Mike and Dave were superb. Excellent presentation, knowledge and skills. Very enjoyable and informative.\
Very useful and infirnatuve\
Clear, helpful. Covering the content in a way that was helpful for both first timers and those who have done many times\
\
Scottish fella very good the other guy god but pitched info for a much younger audience. \
Very Good\
Funny and entertaining while delivering top notch livesaving skills \
\
\
Extremely informative and useful. High quality training delivered professionally but in an entertaining and engaging way.\
\
Very professional\
\
The course has enhanced my knowledge and will improve my practice at my work place.\
I enjoyed  the course,within the last three years there were few change in some area such as in case of bleeding you can stop the bleeding without  alleviating the leg or the arm. The course content was satisfying and I have the chance to practice and this has given me more confidence.\
\
Very good and useful training. I have learned lots of new things. \
\
\
Really interactive and informative session. Was definitely worth attending \
It was a really enjoyable experience. \
Very informative\
Good \
Good \
Very happy to do the course. Dan did very well delivering the course.\
Good training with good learning resourses\
Very informative session, with lots of practical information. Danny gave lots of opportunities to ask questions and he explained the theories. \
Course was very interesting I learned a lot \
Would prefer to be given booklet, and make this a bit more practical. Trainer had great anecdotes \
Brilliant delivery fully enjoyed and all info was both beneficial and up to date\
Informative and relaxed really lovely and great trainer I really enjoyed training on this course :)\
Was very detailed, and fun at the same time.  I have refreshed my first aid memory today.  Thank you \
\
\
\
Fantastic course an Paul was a fantastic trainer!\
\
\
Paul was an excellent trainer.  I now feel confident that i could help in an emergency.  \
I thought it was great! Brilliant trainer!  I definitely feel much more confident to jump in on emergency situations now.  The only thing I would say, is that it was quite a lot to get through in a day and I wish we could have gone into a bit more detail on some things. I think having some kind of printed handouts might also be useful to help jog my memory in the future!\
Brilliant and memorable, went at a good pace for everyone in the group to understand \
Very good training - Paul was engaging and fun and involved everyone in the room. Perfect for our needs. Thank you!\
Really relaxed and knowledgable trainer. \
Very informative and interactive. Bob was really great.\
\
First hand experiences where great to listen to. Trainer had a great personality which came through in the way he presented the course, making it fun and more enjoyable\
Bob was lovely, very welcoming and funny \
Very helpful\
Really enjoyed the training. It was very engaging and I feel like I learnt so much. Very well explained and trainers made sure everyone was comfortable before moving to the next step. I feel confident in the skills I learnt and have already advised people to think about taking the course. THANK YOU!\
Great course and trainers, the best practical first aid course I have taken. Good new information on use of mobile phones and Israeli bandages, added to my knowledge.\
Trainers with a good sense of humour and lots of interesting stories. Very engaging. \
A very informative and practical course delivered in an interesting and engaging way. I also appreciated that Paul mentioned the emergency phone numbers, how they differ and when to call which and also the Medical ID and emergency call on iPhone which I didn't know about and find very useful.\
Very good course. The practical examples were a big help. The instructors had a great presenting manner which made it easy to learn. My only complaint would be with the actual venue which was very stuffy and claustrophobic. Would recommend the course.\
Excellent 1 day first aid class !\
Excellent, simple approach, and loads of practical sessions to drive key learnings home. Very good indeed.\
Very interactive and practical.  \
Very helpful and useful \
Great teaching and content. Thank you Paul & Brandon!\
Excellent delivery. Good balance of material, practicals and anecdotes. \
Excellent, fit for purpose course and good basic first aid top up. Pragmatic and self explanatory. Paul and Brendon were fun and made things very enjoyable. Will recommend and am interested in any learning opportunities in mental health. \
Very engaging. The guys were helpful, knowledgeable and energetic. It was an excellent refresher for first aid. \
\
\
An extremely informative course.  Jaimi\'82\'c4\'f4s way of presenting was excellent, Jaimi included all members of the group in all activities and discussions.  Very knowledgeable about all topics covered. First class training session.  Would highly recommend this course. \
Highly effective\
Really interesting and engaging trainer, it was a good day and I learnt more than on the last training I attended. \
I think the course was very good the things I would take a look at are the babies being very creepy\
I thoroughly enjoyed the course, and felt like Jaimi was very easy to talk to and was fully able to communicate the topic to us\
Looks like the man, the myth, the legend Steve Irwin. 16/10\
Clear instruction and well structured. Would be good to have something to take away such as a handout as a reminder. \
Comprehensive, detailed, structured and well-presented. Very good!\
It was very useful and interesting hopefully in an emergency I will remember to stay calm I am sure that with the knowledge that I learn today it will really help\
nice guy solid lad \
\
Very informative and clear course.\
\
Great refresher. Interesting.and fun trainer\
\
\
Extremely useful. Trainer was brilliant with the students.\
\
\
Instructors were Very informative, light hearted and accommodating \
\
Best course I've done! trainers were great!\
Really good course. Really took on board our experience and what we needed to focus on. Kept it interesting and didn't spend too long on any one topic\
\
A lovely team worked well together and I've come away feeling confident with my first aid skills. \
Great course. Simple. Very easy \
Fabulous INsructors. \
\
Great course, great teachers. \
\
Amazing course, loved the teachers! \
\
Andy was excellent.\
Be good to add the presence of the cafe to the course details.\
Derek was fun, engaging and really knew his stuff. He was well organised and passionate about his subject and passing on his knowledge. A thoroughly enjoyable and useful course\
Very good delivery of a subject that has a lot of info to present. Derek made it easier to understand the core aims and provided plenty of extra info to explain the important principles.\
\
Derek was very humorous which personally I found very useful in absorbing information. Good work. Imagine he has had to repeat himself on a regular basis. Very passionate.\
Great course, made learning enjoyable by the Trainer, Brendan. I learned quite a few things not normally learn through usual first aid at work courses!!\
\
Leader extremely knowledgeable and friendly! Organised and friendly.   I would say that it was slow paced at times, and could have been done in a day. However, The instructor made it fun, and really nailed it sticking in my head.   The fact that he had 20 minutes to spare, and then allowed us the freedom to create a scenario and went along. \
Brendan was a very good instructor , he engaged well with the group . He was clear and concise delivering the programme. A good sense of humor in his delivering . He was able to meet the needs of the group in his delivery style. Really enjoyed the course . Thank you \
Being able to practice outside was brilliant, we got to explore a wide selection of injuries and solutions. The repetition and role plays really help the information settle in\
Considered our roles and implemented situation that would be realistic \
Fantastic course covered everything we needed \
Very good. \
Very good course. \
\
Excellent training and I would highly recommend. Clear and easy to follow. \
Well delivered, great couch, lots of interaction with others on the course. Highly recommend \
Fab friendly professional trainer (Danny)\
\
Derek was very nice. He explained everything we should know about first aid and I learned a lot for two days. I definitely  recommend him. \
Brendan was a really great instructor, informative and answered any and all questions. He also made us feel very relaxed, and while the course itself is serious, he made sure we had a laugh. The building and facilities were great, new and very clean and efficient. Lesley was helpful and understanding when I was a little late! I feel like I\'82\'c4\'f4ve learned a lot, and feel a lot more confident to be able to deal with any problems that would arise. \
\
Brandan was great. Course was relaxed & fun & well as very informative. Only 6 in the sessions so we had plenty of practise of CPR etc.. I feel so much more confident in dealing with a medical emergency now at work & in every day life. Would highly recommend this course.\
Many points were made more memorable by Brendan Macwilliams' anecdotes!\
Very informative and thorough course with excellent trainer-Brendan. Great use of role-play and practice scenarios, so glad the boss sent me on this as I feel more equipped to administer first aid should the occasion arise.\
Great course, very informative! \
He was great fun and practical in his learning which will help with recalling information when needed (if needed!)\
Interactive, fun and memorable\
A good, structured course.  Thank you\
Very good course - very good teacher. Thank you\
Trainer Kyria was very pleasent and enjoyable to work with and arrived 20 minutes prior to start time and was very patient  My employees really liked Kyrias work on how to act in basic life support and explained in very details and made a excellent course enjoyable for everyone.\
\
Would be good to have a handout to keep.  Course content was very good though.\
A very good course where we practiced CPR skills, choking and spoke about different signs and symptoms of various conditions and how to manage these situations.\
\
\
I am now confident in cpr!!!\
Brendan was great made everything fun also\
The course was well taught and spread across 2 days in order to absorb a little better! Definitely worth a try! Thank you. \
\
Brendan delivered the course in a very good way, he made it enjoyable yet very informative.\
\
Really informative and a good trainer who made it very enjoyable.\
Fun interactive course with Brendan very informative \
Professional and personable facilitator Brendan gave lots of pointers and support in the practical learning. \
I found Brendan very down to earth in the way he explained the course. It was easy to understand and how to remember the things he taught us.\
Fantastic course and trainer. Very informative. Thank you\
Fabulous course. Admin efficient and course trainer tailored content to suit our needs. Would highly recommend. Many thanks.\
Fantastic course - very useful - knowledgeable instructure who kept the day fun\
\
Very informative and relaxed training \
Amazing course, Danny was fantastic and covered everything along with all our questions and extras queries we had that was not to be covered in the course which I think was fab. Thank you! \
\
Very useful course - clear instruction - very knowledgeable instructor\
\
\
I feel like the course could have been shorter.\
\
Too long. Not concise. Too short a lunch break. Repeating stuff. 'Great stuff' and 'are we happy?' repeated a 1000 times. A bit condescending.\
Longer lunch break please. \
\
\
Really useful, nice to have a practice of abdominal thrusts and back slaps, good equipment. Variety of defibrillators. Trainer is very informed and interesting. Would be nice to have further/advanced training too maybe e.g. tourniquet etc. \
\
Learned a lot and had fun. \
learnt lots great teacher\
\
\
\
\
This was by far the best first aid course I have attended. Derek really brought it to life. We really benefited from his extensive experience - loved it, thanks\
Derek is absolutely fantastic and thanks to him everything makes sense and you can really understand the knowledge with a real world relation. Of the many first aids I've done it was by far the best and I have definitely learnt a lot. \
The training was very informative. It covered all the bases and included practical exercises so us trainees could practice our skills. Derek is a fantastic trainer. He made it really interesting and enjoyable. \
The instructor was very informative,  full of facts and experiences which were very interesting.  I really feel that I have gained first aid knowledge.\
Well structured and presented course which I felt kept everyone engaged\
\
Derek made the course really interesting and engaging. The topics covered were relevant, there was just a lot to take in! It might be good if there were some kind of assessment after each topic and maybe a summary / written assessment at the end\
Very good teacher who makes learning first aid fun but informative at the same time\
\
Very good - friendly instructor- good content\
Very good content, relaxed and informal but informative \
\
\
Good day\
Jaimi was excellent I enjoyed the day and would recommend him to anyone thinking of doing a coure\
Great course, very informative and enjoyable too. Many thanks!\
The trainer was great. Lots of knowledge around first aid. I really enjoyed the training today \
\
Very informative and interesting training. Mike was knowledgeable and really helped to make the training engaging. Thanks!  \
very experienced and interesting trainer who shared lots of stories with us that made it very real. Good mixture of learning content through videos, talking and practical activities.\
I found the course very informative \
A really helpful informative course I\'82\'c4\'f4m more confident in what I\'82\'c4\'f4d now do in an emergency. \
The facilitator was A*. Very easy to comprehend with warmth and reassurance used to tackle a challenging and scary topic. Some concrete course materials or recommendations of videos to watch would be useful for future courses. Thank you! It was great.\
Learnt a lot and had made me aware and want to learn more \
\
Lovely instructor and learnt quite a bit. Very thorough and patient. \
Really useful and learnt alot.\
Trainer was very very good, engaging and very friendly. The course was helpful and useful! \
A really helpful informative course I\'82\'c4\'f4m more confident in what I\'82\'c4\'f4d now do in an emergency. \
\
Course great,Danny the trainer,excellent ,as I put in my review . Not so pleased with the email I received from Lesley Patrick from, surrey first aid training,suggesting I was not pleased with Danny s training,and they could possibly send someone else for future courses,at Loseley . Not sure why I was send this,and I do not want Danny to think, he was not greatly apricted at Losely for a good training session .\
\
Danny was excellent, very friendly,making learning fun,as well as very informative. Helping us as a group,and indidvidual needs and abilities. Good to reliterarate previously learnt skills, now confeident to carry out first aid,in my work environment.\
Very interesting and informative course. Danny was such a nice man, bursting at the seams with knowledge but a few of us really struggled with his powerful Scottish accent, meaning we missed a lot of content. He apologised in advance for his accent. But I would not mark him down too much because of his accent. I enjoyed the course and learned a lot.  \
Danny is a lovely man and certainly knows his subject. However, it is a strain trying to understand what he is saying. I think he is aware of the problem\
Very interesting and Andy kept my attention throughout.  If I was in a situation where I had to practise First Aid, I would definitely be more confident after today's course.  Actually practising the CPR, being able to use the practise epi pens and also seeing a defibrillator in use was much more helpful than just hearing about them.\
\
Calm and confident delivery The course was really enjoyable \
Great trainer, good explanations and really good to have such a wide range of props, especially the choking aid and the epipens.\
Really found all of the resources useful. Chocking vest, di-fib, epi pens, good to have first hand practise. \
\
Really good explanations and good to have so many things to try like epi pens. \
VERY INFORMATIVE.  REPEAT PRACTICE IS A VERY GOOD TEACHING METHOD. AN ENJOYABLE COURSE WHERE WE ALL FELT THAT WE HAVE LEARNT AND REMEMBERED THE FIRST AID.\
Very informative and he tailored the content to our needs\
\
Very informative and well presented. \
Very interesting and informative. \
\
Very informative and thought provoking. I really learnt a lot and hope to put this knowledge to good use. \
The guy was very informative and explained everything clearly and in a way that was interesting to all of us , \
 The corse was really interesting and Mike explained everything clear and he was quite amusing.. I highly recommend this course that is very helpful at home , working and in every life\'82\'c4\'f4s situation. \
well delivered course. content really applicable to our setting. good mix of practical, visual and taking notes. Trainer was professional but used humour appropriately to break up distressing topics.\
\
A really well delivered, well paced course. The content in made to be user friendly and memorable and the structure shifts effortlessly from theory to practical.  Our trainer was both knowledgeable and enthusiastic, with an encouraging tone and personable manner.  Would definitely recommend this course. \
Very informative with clear guidelines to what is expected,makes you feel more confident to get updated training. Well done Derek.\
Very informative trainer, taught us updates in first aid I enjoyed the course.\
Derek our trainer explained things clearly, and was very patient to help us get things right. Hope to see you again in three years time.\
Course was very informative , enjoyed Derek's first hand knowledge of first aid. Very experienced trainer.\
The first aid 12 hours course was very informative, and its good to keep up to date with the changes. I would highly recommend the Trainer Derek.\
Some notes or a book to take away would be great. We had to pay \'ac\'a35 for the book and one included would be useful. The trainer was informed and helpful. \
\
Very good. I did this course because I have a grandchild and work with children.  Danny was very good.\
Would be good to have material to take away that you did not have to buy separately.\
\
\
Very informative and learned a lot on the course. The instructor was also very helpful in getting us to follow him. \
Really nice trainer \
Very relaxed trainer making it far more understandable \
Excellent course, very informative and gives you the confidence to know what to do.\
Course was great, i leanrt a lot of new things that i didnt know before and if there was a follow up course i would come again.\
\
Excellent & interesting course. \
\
It was very informative, really good trainer\
It was very informative, really good trainer\
Very nice guy. Could answer all questions. Very friendly\
Great course  really nice instructor\
Danny made it really enjoyable and easy to listen to. Thank you\
\
\
The best trainer I've ever had. Excellant balance with practical and theory.A bonus that he had a sence of humour which makes the class relaxed and happy to help concentraition levels.Has good ways helping people with any difficulties.\
 Derek was an excellent trainer, made the course really enjoyable. \
Outstanding on every aspect \
Good course and good first aid book  Trainer was very good \
Really enjoyable.\
Very informative and learnt a lot \
Our trainer was Sue Lynch - it was a very informative course. Varied- enjoyed the scenarios at the end. Thank you \
Our course trainer was Sue. Was interesting and feel more confident now about first aid situations. \
Our trainer was sue lynch Very informative and thorough training, answered any questions that we had. Would definitley recommend \
Learnt alot \
The course was carried out by Sue.  She was lovely and delivered the content well. Very approachable and reassuring.\
Very informative, enjoyed the practical. Our trainer was Sue Lynch who answered all our questions, she also had good stories of her own experiences \
Our trainer was Sue L\
Lovely teacher, learned a lot, thoroughly enjoyded, highly recommended \
Very informative, trainer was really good.\
This course was delivered well to keep our interest and engage learning!! Brendan ensured we all understood and answered any questions!! \
Very good, enjoyable and informative\
Really well put together course, delivered in a way that made serious content fun to learn and remember. Very helpful information that has made me feel more confident if ever faced with a situation in which id need to use it.\
Teacher made the course a fun way to learn serious information that could come in handy anywhere and especially in my work place. very well put together and was thorough from start to finish. Highly recommend. \
\
Really good trainer. Involved us all wity varing senanrios. Well done!\
The Course was very useful from start to finish and the trainer Mike was very informative, super course.  Thankyou  Fahima. \
It wasnt robotic and told you stuff wich they read from a sheet, it was fun, interesting, active. It felt like the course took into acount what would you really be likely to do in these types of situation considering we work in a nursery\
I really enjoyed the First Aid course as I found it very useful and learnt medical terminology which was supported and explained very well by Mike White I would highly recommend going on this First Aid training course.\
Great course. A good balance of information, videos and practical exercises which was very clear and made the 2 days go by very easily.\
It was very helpful,I learn many thing...hope I can servire  someone life...many thank to Mike.\
Trainer was fantastic! Very nice, accommodating, entertaining and knowledgeable. Some of the videos seemed a bit redundant, but I understand the need for multiple forms of teaching and delivering the information. \
The course trainer, was an absolute amazing guy ! Who knew what he was talking about and gave examples in real life situations which , he used both medical terminology and normal terminology. Mike White ,  you\'82\'c4\'f4re a star ! \
\
Very good enjoyed the course the trainer Mike white made it interesting and enjoyable \
Very good had fun \
\
Course was very helpful and intresting. Really enjoyed it as well, because it helped us understand what to do in an situation where a first aider is needed.\
Really, enjoyed today and feel like I will have the confidence to act in an emergency with skills that will help the casualty and their chances of recovery.\
Course was very helpful and intresting. Really enjoyed it as well, because it helped us understand what to do in an situation where a first aider is needed.\
\
Insightful course. I feel much more confident now that I would know the key steps in a situation requiring first aid\
Great, learnt everything needed to! \
\
\
The course was great, interactive and informative unfortunately the room was really cold but that is not on the trainer \
\
\
Very informative. Presented in a relaxed environment. Confidence giving.\
A useful course. Informal but informative. Course leader shows knowledge and experience. Thank you\
\
Succinct course with knowledgeable instructor. Could have done with a comfort break in the afternoon but great other than that. Will recommend. \
\
Very good course, will return in 3 years \
Very in depth training course with a lot of materials which will help me within my role. Great teacher with a lot of knowledge.\
Really well delivered course with good materials provided and excellent examples used. Good interaction also helped\
\
Nushi is a very good trainer, lively expressive and full of energy, she ,made the course interesting and fun with a great atmosphere\
Nushi is fantastic and I definitely will take away and put into practise what I learned from this course. \
\
Hitesh was excellent at delivering the course. Take away material could be interactive and delivered over the internet. \
Hitesh is a fantastic trainer and made the course really engaging and interesting. He has lots of real-life experience, and always adapted the topics to relate to our specific roles.   The room got quite cold, but the temperature was quickly adjusted when we fed back.  I valued the opportunity to state how much critiquing I wanted to receive - as someone who has completed a lot of presentations skills training in the past I did not want to repeat similar activities and preferred to use my time to  contemplate how to apply these new learnings and theories to my current job.\
Hitesh is an enthusiastic, energetic and confident trainer. His past sales experience and knowledge strengthens his credibility. The course is well run, interesting and more importantly enjoyable...\
\
fantastic course led by an energetic Hitesh.\
\
Great course, very well paced. Old TACK pens were btter\
Really insightful course executed so well by a very knowledgable trainer thank you \
Excellent pace and delivery. I enjoyed the programme as a reminder of the best practice model for sales management. \
\
Hitesh was great. He was consistently positive and all feedback was constructive. He was tireless in trying to help us at every opportunity. I\'82\'c4\'f4ve learnt a lot and really enjoyed it. Filming and watching back took me out of my comfort zone, but was hugely rewarding. \
Excellent. Haven\'82\'c4\'f4t read the workbook fully yet but I am sure it\'82\'c4\'f4s also excellent \
Thank you so much. The only reason the scores are lower for the PPT and workbook are because we were a smaller group, they were hardly used as Hitesh was able to tailor the course to us individually. I have a new found confidence for presenting and won\'82\'c4\'f4t shy away for future presentations.\
Drop generations/rapport sections.\
A very enjoyable course and was not the dynamic I was expecting. Thought the group would be much larger and full of role play exercises. Bushiest is an excellent and engaging trainer that made me feel confident and inspired by the material\
Excellent venue, very engaging trainer.\
Interesting and insightful course really enjoyed the game pace and different styles of learning \
Fantastic food at venue \
Worked hard to design points specifically to both our companies which was very helpful \
\
\
\
Very good, relaxed. 100% reccomend\
This venue is a better than the propay back one in London.  Chris is a brilliant lecturer, he addresses every aspect to the individuals specific customers constantly to make what he is saying relatable. \
Great course. Really enjoyed, even the role play.\
Simon lead the course extremely well, and delivered and worked through the content in a way which certainly helped me understand, absorb and reflect on how this could be implemented in my current role.     \
I enjoyed the challenge set by each section of the course, which forced me to think exactly how the advice best fits into my current role.\
very good, enjoyable and worthwhile to understand better how we should cope with different types of people, handling awkward situations and also backing ourselves in negotiating. learnt that sometimes you have to be direct and tell rather than coach but both very important at the right times\
Great course with ideal content for me having stepped up to management 3 months ago.\
Thought the Warwick Venue was fantastic easy access plenty of parking, great facilities and fantastic food\
Really helpful and practical course. All very relavent\
Karl was an excellent course trainer, with clear sales experience and expertise. He kept the environment light, but professional and taught me a tremendous amount about how I should be proceeding in my future ventures.\
Really enjoyed the course, the content, the Tutor, the Facility\
Engaging course, with a great insight into how to improve moving forward.\
\
\
Fantastic course and learnt a great deal. Karl was fantastic \
\
\
\
Simon was good but the content felt a little old school at times.   And the piece on recruitment was poor  3 full days is a lot of time out of the office\
Great course overall, would of been good to have more practical exercises. Simon is a nice guy and the first day content was excellent. \
Good training and good relevance. Areas for thought and gained some insight into new techniques.\
\
Well organised course small class which gave a lot of interaction \
\
\
Great course and Simon made everything interesting, engaging and I am buzzing about getting out there and putting it all in to practice! \
Very good insight in to sales process, now it comes down to adopting what you can in current job role.\
Attention to detail from the venue, water top ups not frequent enough and coffee machine upstairs not great and sometimes not working. Had to use facallties downstairs which was nice sometimes but got extremely busy. \
\
Would recommend to everyone. Specific and focused\
Karl was amazing really knowledgeable and interesting to listen to. Has experiences from all different walks of life.\
Really valuable course and Karl made it really enjoyable and did as much as possible to help\
Very enjoyable course. Big thanks to Karl who was a fantastic trainer who kept us engaged throughout.\
\
\
After pro payback I was expecting similar food (especially considering the cost of the course)  Office is a bit tatty and not very welcoming. Felt like we were tacked on to a GI group event and there was a lot of GI talk that we were unable to relate to After a long journey and early start on Tuesday, cheap biscuits for breakfast was disappointing! \
Excellent 3 days. Well delivered by Simon. \
\
Really useful with lots to take away.\
\
Fantastic course. Enjoyed it very much. \
Very helpful and nicely presentwded by an experienced expert.\
\
Simon is a very passionate and enthusiastic trainer. Gained a lot of skills from his course\
\
Course was very relaxed, fun and engaging. Really well run by Simon. A little more selection for lunch would have been ideal.\
Great course but it was a bit rushed particularly on the last day.\
\
Simon is a great presenter, it is obvious he has lots of experience and is very knowledgeable. I have learnt a lot about my own sales techniques and how to improve them going forward. There are also lots of aspect which I would never have considered when conducting a meeting.   The course is fantastic,   \
I thought Simon was very engaging and thoroughly enjoyed the course and will take a lot away from the course.\
\
A thoroughly insightful and above all helpful piece of work  for my professional and personal life. You leave with a strong sense and belief you can manage your way into and out of any situation, no matter how complex.\
Feed back given on initial pre work required . Long winded and not easy to use\
Overall a big thank you for the course and the professional, highly capable delivery by Lindsey.  The course structure and content are well considered and provide a great learning process.  There is always room for improvements in training aids but those provided are very good.  The room we had for the second training days was on the small side but this issue was well coped with.\
The course was immensely helpful, especially having built up from the first two days (module 1). There was a lot to cover but it was all valuable content. I would have liked another half day to allow more time to practice influencing but appreciate that possibly isn\'82\'c4\'f4t viable for most attendees. It was less than ideal at times having an odd number of attendees but Lindsey handled it well. She is very knowledgeable and a great communicator. \
Exceptional course. Great trainer.\
An excellent experience overall.\
\
Really good course trainer, enjoyed the three days and gained a lot from the course.\
Done part one with Simon as well Great training coach, would recommend again\
Course was relevant to me. It was, again, delivered fantastically by Simon. He engaged us at all opportunities and kept my interest even in places I didn't think I would. Great trainer and a genuine guy. \
The room was cordoned off with other conferences going on next door which was very noisy. \
The team from BITE were amazing and were really passionate about the animals. As a team building activity this was really amazing and some parts required some strength lol but overall it was fantastic. What we built in a short amount of time was truly remarkable. Great to end an offsite by giving back. Thank you to Mark, Chris and the team. \
\
Fantastic staff, great fun and very knowledgeable, would recommend to anyone, beautiful location, had such a laugh, would love to do it again.\
Hi , from starting , not knowing anything about what we were doing, to the final outcome of building a feeding device for the Giant Otters at Longleat was absolutely amazing, it brought home the VALUE of TEAM WORK... and what you can achieve together, all my colleagues felt as inspired as myself , and can highly recommend this, using tools I had never used before, an excellent day...\
My team had the best day ever, the staff from Team Building with BITE were really friendly, got us all started on the project and were hands on throughout the whole session providing encouragement.  Feedback from my team following the event couldn't have been more positive, I would highly recommend.\
It was fabulous, a really different kind of experience but one where everyone had a fabulous time and could get involved.  Mark and Chris were knowledgeable, organised and great fun.  I would  recommend this experience very highly.\
This was such a unique way to team build! It felt great to have a purpose, create something and then see the joy on the team's, zookeepers' and monkeys' faces when it was done. Also to learn new skills and try something I'd never done before (no one has ever given me a drill before!). I learnt a lot about myself and the people I worked with. For me, I learnt when I have to let someone else take control when they know better, while still being able to be a leader/guiding force for my team. I'll take great pride in pointing out our feeding platform to people every time I go to the zoo now! I would definitely recommend this training.\
Superb session that exceeded expectations and was thoroughly enjoyed by all. I have had numerous staff come and tell me it was the best team-building event they have ever done!\
Best team building exercise ever!!\
An excellent activity with an end useful product - thoroughly enjoyed by all!\
\
It was excellent. Great project to work on and just enough guidance to force us to talk and get working together. I was really impressed at the minor interventions when we were about to go off track and the whole activity was a delight.\
This was my favourite team build, a very happy client and a very happy agency! Really impressed with the way that they got everyone so engaged and interested in the activity and it was so nice seeing a finished product that actually helped the animals and that the attendees could see there work had been appreciated. \
Chris and Mark were outstanding they were really organised and have clear expectations for our group, they were really approachable and have a positive and encouraging attitude.  All the people in the group  were motivated to  work hard and the sense of accomplishment after all he hard work is unvaluable. We are already looking at booking again for next year. Thanks to Teambuilding with Bite for an unforgettable and amazing experience. \
Everyone had a great time thank you and it was great to see how the animals responded to the broom boxes.  A couple did mention that they would have liked to have learnt more about the animals they were working for so maybe I should have known ahead of the day what we would be doing and then put either some facts together or a quiz which we could have played whilst making the boxes.  Just some feedback which I thought I would share but not negative on our afternoon as we all had a great time. Thank you \
\
\
It was so much fun. The guys were really helpful and the end product looked great and it's nice to see something you've made be put up with the animals\
LOVED IT.  Such a good team building exercise and amazing to see the monkeys in action and enjoying it.\
A bit pricey for a small charity (but we got it sponsored!) and would have really liked to do it outside on such a nice day. But it was brilliant, the team absolutely loved it  - really brought everyone together and they came away buzzing. Amazing to see the feeding station we built put into the enclosure and used by the monkeys! Mark and Chris were fab - thank you! \
Great team building exercise with rewarding conclusion.  This is the first time I have had positive feedback from all that attended.  Definitely consider doing this again\
This was a corporate event for colleagues from both UK and various European countries. Everyone enjoyed the activity, the time frame was perfect and it was great to be able to see the animals interact with our creations afterwards and see that what we created is worthwhile and for a very good cause. I would recommend these activities and would also do something again as it is not restrictive on age, physical agility, etc. Everyone can join in .\
Good level of supervision, allowed to get on with it, plenty of equipment to share around. Good level of pre-preparation to ensure smooth process and assembly.\
This was a great team building event that really motivated everyone and you could tell the team thoroughly enjoyed it. \
A fantastic activity for our team build, extremely well organised - I would recommend BITE 100%\
The best team building event I've ever done - to actually build something together, then see the fruits of our labours in operation, being used - wonderful!\
An excellent team building activity - fun and interactive whilst doing something worthwhile!   It was particularly special to see our creations go straight into the animal enclosure and be used as hoped! Fantastic!\
Great event for team-building - fun, challenging and useful all at once. \
Fantastic team building event. Everyone got involved and was great seeing the animals use the products at the end.\
\
Really good activity\
\
Team Building with BITE are fantastic organisation and provided an excellent day of entertainment and team building for our team.   Unfortunately the venue, Port Lympme Hotel, let us down enormously as the team building was only part of our day and the administration, organisation and customer service was very poor.  A huge thank you to Mark and Chris  \
Amazing activity and cannot fault the instructions, equipment, safety and also pure enjoyment from people who have never used a power tool in their life.  The icing on the cake was to see the finished item hanging and being played with my the monkeys\
This was a really enjoyable exercise, when we saw the raw materials I was frankly horrified.... how could we create anything from that pile of random pieces of wood?  However, the construction that we made between us was amazing and it's been fantastic seeing the Langurs enjoying the floating platforms.  Receiving feedback from the BITE team after the event has been a really nice touch too! \
The team building event we attended was awesome!  I cannot thank you enough.  The day was very well organised, it gave our staff the opportunity to work together using skills we do not get to use on a day to day basis... Its not often IT Geeks are allowed to handle DIY Tools and for some we wont let them again for a long time  ;-)  Being able to see the end product hanging in the monkey enclosure at Woburn was the icing on the cake for us.  Thank you to Mike and his team.  \
A really fun and inspiring day.\
Had a fantastic fun day filled with laughter with all my colleges doing something that was totally out of our comfort zones!!  Defiantly recommend this for everyone to try!! Thank you for an amazing day Mark and Chris x\
Was a very enjoyable exercise.\
Loved the course, it took me out of my comfort zone, and now I know I can actually use a drill I will start using one for things around the home.   The only thing I would say is that we were split into 2 teams a bit too randomly.  It meant all the people with DIY knowledge were on one team and the other team (mine) had no one with DIY knowledge.  It should have been split a little bit more evenly. \
Very fun activity and the trainers were very helpful \
It has been a great experience! Thank you.\
\
My team had a great experience with team building with BITE at Port Lympne. Before attending the event I had communications with the team so they had an understanding of what we were trying to achieve from our team building event and was informed of everything I needed to know before hand so we could be prepared as possible! We arrived on the day and the everything was set up ready for us, we were briefed on what we were going to be creating and how to keep ourselves safe. We were tasked with creating feeding boxes for the bears, given a diagram of what it should look like, the materials and off we went! Although it seemed daunting at first, Chris and Holly were there to prompt and guide when needed or asked to help us all create safe effective feed boxes that could actually be used. Despite many of the group not using tools before, the support given by Chris and Holly made what felt like the impossible, possible and despite us going through several drills (oops!) Chris was only too happy to attend to our constant calls to come fix them/replace them and to teach us how to use them properly! We got there in the end and transported our creations via a safari truck to the bear enclosure where we were able to see the bears take interest in what we had made and finally get the hang of how they were meant to access the food which was great to see. Chris and Holly took some great photos for us to remember the day which we will be proudly putting up in our office. I would definitely recommend this team building exercise, it is something that everyone could get involved in to work as a team and learn some new skills at the same time. Thank you so much for this experience and all your help. \
Very good team building exercise!\
Both chaps who facilitated on the day really friendly and helpful.  \
really great idea for team building\
Greta fun, well organised, great to see the animals enjoying the results.\
Excellent team building experience and perfectly achieved our outcomes. The team had a great time and the facilitators were very knowledgeable. It was great to see the outcome of work and visit the Meerkats. \
Great course and activity to get everyone working together, and it was really nice being able to see the finished product being used.  Definitely recommended!\
\
Thoroughly enjoyable afternoon that married up team building aspects with a hands on approach.  The fact that we could build the feeders and then see them being placed in site and how the marmosets were attracted to them was priceless.  Discussions with the keepers was also priceless as the feeders hadn't been used before so the keepers were as keen to see how they would enhance and enrich the marmoset areas.  Definitely recommend this for other teams looking to do something different but hugely rewarding.\
A great teambuilding event with lots of encouragement and explanation provided by the BITE team.  Very rewarding tasks that benefited the animals in the enclosure - what can you possibly not enjoy about that!!  Great day.  Highly recommend.\
I have to admit that before the session I was feeling slightly cynical - was thinking that we would be doing something which would probably be fun, but which would just be for the sake of it.  It was therefore really good to hear that we would be building something which would actually be used, and fantastic to get a chance to see the giraffes using the feeders we'd produced.  All the staff were really warm and supportive, without feeding us too much information (ie - we still had to think for ourselves!).  Thanks everyone.\
Great fun building the feeders together and nice to see them being put to use.\
The team building activity was organised in a very professional way, everybody  was inredibly helpful, positive and supportive.  Seeing giraffes using the feeders that our team have built made us feel really good as money and our time went to support such a good cause. Thank you Mark and your BITE team for such a great day! \
Great Team, great event. Would not hesitate to use these guys again. Such a unique and rewarding team build.\
What a great way to spend the afternoon  - just hope the baboons enjoyed their new feeders as much as i enjoyed being involved with the rest of the team in making them.  We are a great team and building 20 feeders is testament to that.\
great team building and fun event!\
Fantastic event - well thought through!  All delegates were involved & extremely competitive throughout - this was down to the team involved on the day.  Thanks to all involved! \
The Team were great! Clear instructions, great preparation before and after the Event which resulted in so many of the delegates getting really involved in the Event. The feedback has been great and to see the Gorillas actually using the Feeders was a huge bonus. All the staff were on hand to help and were professional throughout the session. Would definitely recommend and hope to use you guys again if we have another similar enquiry!\
We had a excellent team away day at Lakeview, very physical and we were given a real task to achieve as a team which was to completely build two (surprisingly large and heavy) platforms for one of the enclosures and erect them - and then we even got to see the results of our work at the end of the day when the monkeys were let into the enclosure to test them out. We were provided with all the tools and guidance to make sure everyone stayed safe. We were also treated to a guided tour of the sanctuary at the end of the day. I would recommend this day and sanctuary to any teams wanting to work together and feel a sense of achievement at the end of their day.\
Brilliant day!  The trainers were excellent in supporting each of the groups.  They were also able to problem solve on the spot which instilled confidence in what we were doing.\
The day was well organised, even after we arrived late due to our own transport issues! A great, hands-on activity that gave us the opportunity to work as a team as well as develop our own skills. The setting was perfect and knowing that our creations have an impact on the work of Port Lympne and will hopefully benefit the animals made it all very worthwhile. \
Great team building event - much fun had building our catapaults for the bears!\
We had a fantastic day!  As most of us work in an office environment are DIY skills were challenged but I think we held our own.  It is nice to know that our creation will be put to good use for the animals at Port Lympne and not just dismantled and used as firewood.  The day was topped off with a safari around the park which was amazing especially to see the animals so close up.  I would jump at the chance to take part in another event organised by Team Building with BITE.\
I really enjoyed this away day we had fun and learnt some new skills it really makes you work as a team - the trainers were brilliant and knowledgeable would defiantly recommend this  \
\
We used Team building with BITE for our Away Day, they met the brief perfectly and the day was very well organised and the structure was great.  The trainers were so helpful and friendly and you could see how much work and effort they had put into the day to make it a success.  I will be recommending Team building with BITE to friends and family if they want team building with a difference.  Thank you for a great day!\
\
The event was really well organized and the trainers were both helpful and friendly. The event was thoroughly enjoyed by all staff and we would highly recommend to others looking for a team-building exercise!\
Great experience, very friendly and helpful chaps running the session! A very good teambuilding exercise\
This was a surprise activity for my Wife's 30th birthday at Port Lympne. She and her friends had a fun and rewarding time - It really is something different to the norm. \
What a rewarding day and great for team working.  Helped by beautiful weather, Mark and his team had organised a highly practical day where all participants were able to produce some amazing results.  Great stuff! \
\
This was a really well put together team building experience. It had a brilliant balance of making something together as a team, giving something back, being outdoors and the magic of the animals just topped it off. Great lunch too.\
Thoroughly enjoyable team building event at longleat. Chris and Mark were really energetic and knowledgeable. It was great to see the birds interacting with our 'builds' at the end of the session -- great end to the day. Would highly recommend!\
really fun activity planned - well adapted to our needs. The trainers were friendly and up for a laugh - which was needed considering how terribly our team performed. It was great to watch the animals interact with what we made. The activity was well resourced and the guides couldn't have been more friendly and helpful. \
Really lovely people, but wasn't totally explained well but I did enjoy the task. \
\
I really enjoyed the hands on elements of the course and to be able to see giraffes eating from the feeding boxes that we had made. \
I would highly recommend this team building day. I thoroughly enjoyed every part of it and didn't want the day to end. It was something different and I loved that it was so hands on and it didn\'82\'c4\'f4t involve lots of writing or flip chart pads. The organisation and timing was perfect. There was just the right amount of time for refreshments, work and play. Location was amazing. The manor house was just beautiful. We had pastries and refreshments on arrival. Lunch was delicious and of the highest quality.  Our trainers, Mark and Chris were brilliant.  They were so professional, but at the same time relaxed and had a knack of putting us at ease and supporting us, but not taking over.  They were so friendly, helpful and knowledgeable. During the morning we split into three groups and were asked to make a giraffe feeder.  We were given a safety briefing and told about wearing gloves and goggles for protection.  We were supplied with power tools (saws, drills, clamps, cutters) and the materials (wood, perspex, screws, brackets). We were then given really clear instructions on how to build it and were allowed to ask questions throughout the session. Mark and Chris were around to instruct us on the various phases of the build and helped us with any challenges we encountered. Having not used any power tools since my CDT lessons at school nearly 30 years ago at first I was pretty daunted, but with encouragement and support from the rest of my group I overcame my fears, gained confidence and was amazed by what we managed to produce at the end. I sawed, drilled, cut out holes in perspex \'82\'c4\'ec I was pretty pleased with myself.  The task fostered our communication skills, transferable skills, drew on our strengths (whether that was knowledge and skills for the task, or supporting and encouraging our colleagues). Everyone was able to contribute and join in and I think we all pushed ourselves out of our comfort zone. We were also up against the clock, so it was a test in time management and working under pressure too. It was a totally positive and empowering experience. It was extremely well thought out as so many skills were drawn from us naturally as we undertook the task. There was also a prize for the team who worked best together, so this brought out our competitive streaks, but in a friendly way. After our lunch we then got to go out on a jeep around the African Experience with Mark and Chris in search of giraffes.  This was the really fun part.  It was so exciting.  It took us a while to find them, but eventually Chris' perseverance and experience paid off.  We got to feed them with willow branches and just being so close to them with no cages was wonderful.  The giraffes were inquisitive of our feeders and eventually fed from them.  I felt such a sense of achievement, that we had made a small improvement to their lives. It was a thoroughly amazing day and with so many wonderful experiences.  Thanks so much to all the staff at Port Lympne and Team Building With BITE, especially Mark and Chris.\
I thought this course was wonderful. Everyone seemed to have a brilliant time and the project was fantastic for team building. The trainers went out of their way to help us and make sure we all had a great day - we really appreciated the perseverance in persuading the giraffes to eat from the food boxes we'd created!  Thank you so much for an unforgettable experience. \
We had an amazing work away day with Mark and Chris from Team Building BITE at Port Lympne Reserve, We split into teams and added a competitive element with a prize for the team which displayed the best team-working and communication skills. In our teams we made tongue-feeder boxes for the giraffes. We were amazed how well we did with the power tools and sawing wood when we'd never done it before and were very impressed with our boxes - I think we all gained motivation and confidence from the day! Mark and Chris gave us advice and guidance throughout and were extremely supportive, they also judged for us which team had worked best together (not who had the best box!).  They then took us on safari around the reserve to find and feed the giraffes and gave us a highly informative running commentary and information about the animals and the work which is done at Port Lympne.  Highly recommend Mark and Chris and can't wait for our next event with them!\
The course to build Giraffe feeder boxes was so much fun and really exceeded my expectations! I loved the hands-on element and getting to use tools. It was so nice to see everyone trying everything and seeing them succeed at it.   The two trainers we had (Mark and Chris?) were superb and really friendly, they made the day so enjoyable and are a credit to your company. They worked hard to make sure we are all ok, safe and most of all having fun.   It was amazing to spend some time in the afternoon out in the park seeing the Giraffes up close and actually using the boxes we had made, what an experience! I had a really memorable day and would 100% recommend this to others. Thank you :)   Team with Building with BITE definitely rocks!!! \
Fantastic day, thank you for making it so enjoyable.  \
This was a great team building event, and the task/project assigned allowed for everyone - all ages/abilities - to take part.  The trainers were brilliant and made the day - being on hand throughout the morning building task to help with our many queries, and also during the afternoon when we saw how the giraffe feeders we used would be used.  I will definitely recommend this to friends.\
Unlike other team building activities it was so rewarding to see what we had made put to use.    The day had a lovely non-commercial feel to it that we felt our fee was actually contributing to something worthwhile.  I would wholly recommend to anyone.\
Our team had a great day at Port Lympne! we thoroughly enjoyed the team activity in the morning and would recommend to others as a great day out and fantastic opportunity for team building.  Many thanks!\
\
FANTASTIC !! Over the years I have done a huge amount of team building activities but this beats them all by a million miles\
Excellent team building day, everything was great from start to finish. Will be telling colleagues and friends about this and recommending to all that will listen. Great day thank you\
WE had an absolutely fantastic day - completely unique and such a memorable experience.  I think we discovered skills we didn't know we had and really enjoyed working as a team on something completely separate to our usual day to day. Thank you so much for a brilliant experience :) \
Fantastic course - great fun! \
Fantastic course - great fun! \
Our team building event was tailor-made to meet our requirements perfectly. All that attended have said that this is by far the best away day that they have ever been on. Mark and Chris were fantastic and I would definitely recommend Team building with BITE to any of my colleagues here at Brakes.  \
I was the leader of the Brakes team, so I had some sort of insight on what was planned, however this was far better than my expectations. The support was spot on, the brief was meet 100%. My team have already told me that this was the best team building day they have ever had. It will be talked about for weeks in the team, I cannot thank Mark and Chris enough. \
The activity was really enjoyable, a great team building exercise. For me the best bit was the reward of seeing the gorillas playing with the cubes we had made together. Would highly recommend! Thank you \
It was a great activity that fulfilled the objectives of having fun and bringing the team closer together.  I have already recommended it to other managers within our business\
Loved....loved.....LOVED....the task! Building cubes for a Gorilla to play with....not something I ever thought I would do, but very proud to have done it. Getting to see the Gorilla's play with the end result was just amazing. The event itself was well timed with the right amount of instruction (and help!) when needed. Mark was very friendly and knowledgeable about the animals which added another level to the event. I cannot rave about this enough!\
found it quite strenuous go cut through the hose and pull these through the loos...but having said that it was fun :-)\
Fun, informative, satisfying and unique.\
Interesting and worth while Lovely surroundings \
A very enjoyable and worthwhile event. Great to actually produce something tangible and see the benefits almost immediately. \
\
I was looking for a team building activity to bring together the various department managers within my team, This was a great opportunity to simply role our sleeves up and create something together. My team really liked the fact that the finished product was being put to good use, and having the colobus monkeys as end users added a unique element to the day.  The day was arranged efficiently at relatively short notice and the guys running the session were attentive and friendly, many thanks.\
it is a very informative course, do by staff with a lot of passion  \
\
\
Great learning experience and incredible hands on opportunity. \
very interactive course, the trainers Mark and Chris had good interaction with the group whilst we built a new bear platform. The feedback I had from the group after the event was generally positive and they loved the fact they got to work in an unusual environment using tools and equipment they would never normally get the chance to use. Port Lympne on a dry day from the hills is indeed a beautiful place!\
\
Mark was always available to discuss tailoring our course and replied in a timely and professional manner. He was able to be flexible in my request and adapt the course to meet our specifications.  \
\
\
Fantastic course! Had a fantastic week and learnt so much, would definitely recommend to anybody and would even go back myself!\
\
This was a great course, we learnt a lot of practical skills as well as some theory. The instructors were very helpful and knowledgeable and the sanctuary was great. \
Fantastic experience made better because it supports an endangered species.\
fantastic afternoon spent with these guys - would recommend\
A brilliant day!\
The event was well organised, well managed and exceeded any expectations - in short it was brilliant and would love to do again! \
My team and I had a fantastic day at Port Lympne building some platforms and ladders for an enclosure. This was a total departure from our day to day work and all the better for it. The organisers were great - helpful when needed but left us to solve our own problems which was exactly what we needed. It was amazing to watch the teams working together and everyone has said it is by far the best event we have done. \
This was an absolutely amazing afternoon. The best away day we have had by a very long way! Great to be doing something practical, but also that had a purpose beyond the day/activity itself.  Hope the Persian Leopards love it as much as we did :)\
This was a fabulous afternoon! A great team project that you get to put together and see the results afterwards and the trainers were fantastic, I thoroughly recommend it.  Thank you guys, hopefully we will be able to do this again next year!\
Brilliant session.  It was incredible to think that we built the platforms and ladders in such a short space of time. Being able to use the drills and other equipment freely was great.  The trainers were so friendly and helpful. A thoroughly worthwhile experience.  Loved it.\
I had a fantastic day. I haven't rated 'personal objectives' as I didn't have any!\
This was such a great way to spend time as a team working on a project that is totally outside of our everyday experience! And it was extremely rewarding to see such a tangible result at the end, knowing that our efforts would directly benefit some beautiful Persian Leopards destined, ultimately, to be returned to the wild.   As we were quite a big team, it would have been helpful to have access to a few more drills/saws etc but I don't know if that was all part of the master plan- making us bargain for resources! And it would have been better if we'd all had enough gloves. But these are really minor points that didn't in any way detract from the day.   It was fun, it was productive, it was illuminating! Thank you :)\
An absolutely brilliant day! I was amazed how much we were able to achieve in just one afternoon. \
Fantastic day, with excellent team leaders who were very knowledgeable about the park and the animals,  you could clearly see that they love their job.  Really pleased that the leopards that will be using our platforms and ladders will be bred and the offspring will be release back to the wild.  I Love the conservation at Port Lymne .  Thank you for a fabulous day, and l hope we can come back and see our work of art being used. \
\
Fantastic experience made better because it supports an endangered species.\
Really good day, well planned and a lot of fun. It was nice to see the results as well.\
Absolutely brilliant day and so rewarding to see the monkeys trying to figure it out. The trainers were enthusiastic and patient and didn't interfere with any ideas which made it all the more rewarding, top marks!\
The course was one of the best learning experiences I've ever had! Could not recommend it more. The leaders Mark and Chris were fantastic and extremely engaging. The course content was extremely interesting and offered a really great range of practical skills. I genuinely had a fantastic time overall and have a lot of respect for these guys, a big thank you! \
I thoroughly enjoyed the day and both trainers were very professional and on hand to help if assistance was needed. It was great to see the fruits of our labour being used by the monkey and hope they are finally able to work out the puzzle to get to the food! Would highly recommend the course for corporate team building. \
I had such a wonderful day....the course gave us the opportunity to give back and help...such a rewarding and fabulous experience. Mark and Chris were great helping us to bring our ideas to fruition. So recommend this course for team building and families/friends....what a brilliant way to spend a day!\
Thank you so much for a fantastic day!  I would definitely recommend this. The park is beautiful and it was very rewarding to design and build something from scratch that the Capuchin Monkeys can enjoy. I know the other volunteers feel exactly the same as I do, as I'm receiving emails from them this morning telling me what an amazing time they had.  The Team Building Hosts - Mark Kingston Jones and Chris Hales - were lovely to  work with, very friendly and helpful! I had never been to Port Lympne Safari Park before, but will definitely come back again.\
The course completely exceeded my expectations. I had a rough idea of what we would be doing, however you never really know until you get there. The activity encouraged teamwork and working with people I didn't know too well and we all had to work together to achieve the objectives.   I attempted to use a drill which is something I've never done and there were a variety of skills needed across the day. The objectives were clear from the outset and Mark and Chris gave us clear instructions and any help/ advice we needed as the day progressed.   It was fantastic to see our finished project up and running and out in the monkey pen. I only hope it works and keeps them intrigued for a while.   Only one thing to note which is more of an observation than a criticism. It was a pretty hot day and there wasn't too much water. However, it was really up to us to ask for more, just an observation.   Thanks for the opportunity to take part, it was a thoroughly enjoyable day! \
Absolutely brilliant day. An all for a great cause. Not many people can say they have built a feeding station for Capuchin Monkeys!  overall, such a great experience and great hosts!!  Thank you. Jay \
\
Great course guys thank you for having me but I'd love it if you were to put more stuff in about reptiles!  :)\
Super fun way to learn some excellent theory and awesome practical skill! Would recommend to everyone \uc0\u63743 \'fc\'f2\'e4\
\
Fantastic workshop, learned so  much about animals in captivity I never would have in my college course (zoology) so it was brilliant to learn about the real, practical side of animal care and not just the theoretical research sides. Great balance between lectures and practicals and the informal, relaxed format made it feel so much more comfortable :) \
\
Absolutely fantastic course would highly recommend it.  Great fun and learned loads of new ideas.\
\
\
Highly recommend, amazing instructors that provided an invaluable learning experience. Lovely balance of theory and practical exercises! \
\
Fantastic. Anyone who has the opportunity should definitely go on this course\
Great fun and completely unique!\
I thought the afternoon activity was amazing.   Mark initially talked us through why this is a worthy cause and how our afternoon will be helping a wider cause which I think really got everybody on board and optimistic about the afternoon ahead.  At first we were all a little bit confused as to what we had to do, so this could have been explained a little bit better maybe. But after a few minutes we were all in our teams and rushing to start the task.  The task itself was really great and so so rewarding.   Overall the TUI team had an absolutely fantastic afternoon, doing something for a great cause, whilst also being able to bond as a team and produce a great feeder for the monkeys. We haven't stopped talking about the activity yesterday afternoon and will be sure to continue telling the rest of our TUI colleagues to get themselves to a team building with BITE activity.  Thanks again Mark, you were great!\
FANTASTIC, BRILLIANT.   This was one of the best events I have been to.\
What a fantastic day.  The trainers made it really good fun and were really helpful and friendly.\
\
\
Fabulous course, a great fun day enjoyed by all.\
\
A really enjoyable enrichment activity which was hard work but very rewarding!!\
\
Great course. Really enjoyed it and learned alot\
I feel it was a brilliant course, the trainers were very passionate about what they taught which made the whole experience so much more enjoyable. The power points were full relevant information both that you could use during the weekend and to put to use in everyday work. \
Information from course was great.  Anyone wishing to strengthen their presentation skills will definitely benefit.  \
\
\
This course was extremely beneficial and a great opportunity to enhance and gain new skills.  \
Really enjoyed the course. Good balance of content, discussion and presenting.\
Another great course run by The Shape of Enrichment. The thought of doing a public presentation may put you off this course but it really shouldn't. After a few too many years in retail, I can talk to absolutely anyone however the thought of a presentation freaks me out! This course went through the reasoning behind education in zoos and I actually ended up enjoying teaching people about my chosen species! ;) \
A fantastic session which really encouraged our young people to work together and take pride in their work. Thank you very much to the team for meeting our needs and supporting our group so well.\
It was such a great experience! It was grand work, we did not want to stop before we finished, but unfortunately our bus came.\
\
Brilliant course, I felt a huge sense of achievement and loved every second! Would highly recommend. \
Thoroughly enjoyable event with a sustainable purpose as the end result giving a sense of achievement\
Amazing course, well presented and highly recommended!\
\
\
Would definately recommend course for anybody wanting to gain more experience in designing and implementing enrichment.  You learn skills that you cannot find on any other course which is aimed for people who are not yet in employment within the industry. Instructors are very knowledgable and helpful with a broad range of experience and stories that  make the course intereting and enjoyable.\
\
Amazing course\
\
i loved the experience  learning work with the group build a monkey enclosure    \
This is the most amazing course, with a feeling of a good job very well done at the end of it.  It was hard work, but good fun and with a fantastic group of people.  If only gardening at home was this much fun, my gardens would look like Kew!\
Amazing experience for a great Sanctuary! \
Very rewarding course, lots of hard work but extremely worth all the effort. Such a unique and rare experience to help a very well deserving sanctuary.\
Throughly enjoyed it and looking forward to the next weekend! \
Absolutely fantastic course, would do it again in a heartbeat. Felt very lucky to be able to contribute in a small way to such an amazing project \
\
\
Had a wonderful time and learned so much!\
Really enjoyed the fact we had the opportunity to see our work in action. Only comment was that it would be good to get more facts/ info about the marmosets as we were building that may get us to re-think/ adapt our builds. It felt as though we were just doing DIY at points rather than designing something for an animal. However, appreciate this was also talked about in introduction and therefore may not need to be covered again.\
Wonderful, fun and unique experience! I definitely got to know some of my colleagues a bit better, and has such fun doing it. Would recommend to absolutely anyone as this was a blast!\
Absolutely fantastic two hour activity. I came away at the end truly feeling like we'd worked as a team and had created something that would provide enrichment for the marmoset monkeys.\
As the build time is pretty short I think it would help if all teams had drills especially as we had a few technical issues with the one drill that we were given .\
\
\
\
\
We had a fantastic afternoon and our trainer Mark could not have been more helpful and accommodating as were the hosts of the venue at Lake View Monkey Sanctuary.  This is a great course for team building as well as building individual skill  and for  doing something positive for non-human animals and engaging with them in a beautiful, caring environment.\
Who knew you could make punch bags for Bison out of fire hose. A great team day, well thought out and a great lion shaped treat at the end!\
\
This was a well executed course and great all round day out! all 3 teams had fun building our punch bags and it was a treat to see the animals using them.  Highly recommended!\
\
The team building session was absolutely fantastic.  The session leaders were brilliant, really enthusiastic and full of energy and the activity certainly helped to bond the team.  It was also really great to complete a team building activity that was worthwhile.  There has been a real buzz in the office ever since and staff cannot stop talking about how much fun they had, despite the miserable weather! \
Absolutely brilliant day! The session was really interactive and the gorilla feeder task was certainly tricky but made us work as a team and utilise each other's skills - working as a team! So amazing to see our creations in the gorilla enclosure at the end of the day too! Thank you so so much!\
Really fun and interactive day, it allowed me to work as a team and get to know my team a lot better. As it was pouring down with rain they also catered to our needs. allowing us to work inside, we were all a little bit worried that we would be working outside so this was really good\
Great team building day - I would highly recommend it. We were a small team of 8 and when we were searching for team building activities we were concerned that there weren't enough of us to have a fun, and productive team building day. We couldn't have been more wrong! The two trainers were excellent, and the activities really helped us bond as a team. During the day we had to plan a build a food maze for gorillas. This is something that is completely different from our day job - we swapped computers for power tools! When we first found out what we would be doing we thought that we would never be able to finish it, but the trainers were very supportive and it was amazing to see the finished product! Since it was something completely different from our day job, it allowed us to genuinely bond as a team, without worrying about hierarchies or seniority of some members of staff. At the end of the day we got to see the gorillas 'play' with our food mazes, which was immensely rewarding. Working as a team doing something completely different allow me understand the team dynamics much better, and I believe that it has helped improve our communication and strengthen us as a team. Thank you!! \
The task was just the right level of challenge; difficult enough to get us thinking, but manageable in the time we had. Mark and Chris were very helpful and fun whilst we were building the feeders and knowledgeable and interesting when we were visiting the animals.\
Both Mark and Chris were enthusiastic, helpful and overall brilliant trainers. Their course is a fantastic idea and fosters teamwork whilst engaging in a truly rewarding activity. Thanks for everything!\
Great experience! This course made me realise that working with animals is my passion and that I would love to follow in Mark/Chris's footsteps one day.\
\
The SHAPE workshop was really good fun! I went on the course as part of a summer project I am completing on enrichment between my second and third year at vet school. Mark and Chris are truly experts in the field and are very able teachers. The course was engaging at all points, the material were good and the practical elements great. There was more practical in the course than I was expecting, however it was very helpful to be able to put in to practice what we had learnt from the lecture elements as well as really make a difference to the animals at the sanctuary the course took place at with the enrichment devices we built. I also enjoyed the social aspect and ethical discussions that took place, it was great to socialise with people with the same interests as myself!  As a vet student wanting to work in the zoo field, I found the course very relevant to the species I want to work with. The principles described in the course can also be transferred to other species and I think would benefit other vet students in the care of their own animals but also as a vet. \
\
Fantastic course for anyone wanting to know more on zoo keeping and enrichment. Was a great week working with like minded people to help build new enrichment materials for rescued capuchin monkeys.\
Very enjoyable and informative course. Lakeview Monkey Sanctuary run by two of the most genuinely likeable and hard working people I have ever met. Would recommend the course to anyone wishing to improve the lives of captive animals; things to think about and basic techniques learned as well as ideas gleaned from fellow participants.\
Was very enjoyable and knowledgeable course and it was great to work with the teachers and all the participants in the lovely settings of the Lake View Sanctuary\
The course was fantastic, I can't recommend it enough! Mark and Chris we great they work well together and were very engaging plus with there extensive knowledge in the zoological sector I knew the information and tips were trustworthy! The lectures and content was great, and really opened your eyes to the industry and realities of zoo life! The lakeview monkey sanctuary was gorgeous and inspiring! All the animals are well cared for and the work we do for them over the duration of course is incredible! Definitely made me want to join the zoological sector more than I already did! \
I loved this course, and in such a short time we were received a very rounded education on the enrichment of captive animals. This course would be invaluable to anyone already or wanting to work with captive animals, as we learnt all about enrichment theory, and were then able to put it into practice at the monkey sanctuary. Lakeview was an amazing place to go, as it is not open to the public, and we were able to build enrichment items for monkeys that had all had very rough lives. For example, my group built items for a group of long-tailed macaques that had been rescued from a lab - seeing the monkeys use something that had taken hours to make was incredibly satisfying.\
Absolutely loved the course and everything in it. They also showed us many different training methods. they even showed us some footage of training reptiles something which I didn't even really know was hugely possible. Loved working with these guys and would recommend them to anyone working in the animal industry!\
So fun and interesting, really recommend for anyone with an interest in working with captive animals. Just a shame we didn't have more time to build more things!\
Excellent course amazing teachers would recommend Need colour handouts \
I loved this course. I had so much fun building the enrichment, and it makes me want to go on a help other enclosures to have enrichment items.\
\
Very Great course. Highly recommend it for anyone wanting to an animal profession and those who are already in it. Always room to learn, very informative. Didn't want it to end!\
I really enjoyed the course and would highly recommend it to anyone looking to pursue a career in animal care. As with everything there is always room for improvement but in the short time we had there was a lot learnt, I just didn't want the course to end I was enjoying it so much.\
Excellent course and the trainers are very knowledgeable, experienced and generally nice people. Highly recommend it to everyone, even to those who are already in the zoo industry.  \
Definitely worth the money. Great ratio of theory to practice, with an opportunity to see the results of your own hard work. Recommended to everyone on a zookeeping path. \
Chris and Mark are excellent teachers, very knowledgeable and a great pleasure to spend 4 days with.  The facilities, location and the zoo staff we met were equally top notch. Everyone was very friendly and helpful. I learned a lot and would happily do it all again if there is ever a follow on course from the one I have just done.\
Excellent hands on course, ideal balance of theory and application, great way to gain practical skills and make industry contacts\
As a recent graduate and an aspiring keeper I found this course so interesting and informative. Putting my new found skills and knowledge into action to make enrichment devices and see the animals enjoying them was amazing! Awesome course, 100% recommend. \
\
Fantastic course, interesting presentation and hands on practical work. Loved it. Can't wait for the next one. \
\
\
This course was amazing. Very well structured and Chris and mark really know their stuff, not only that but are exceptional in keeping people engaged. They are both so passionate about enrichment it's contagious. Would definitely recommend this course to any one with a interest in a career in working with animals \
Amazing course! Thoroughly enjoyed it and learnt a lot from the content. Would highly recommend it to both students and keepers\
Very interesting and enjoyable course. Highly recommend it to anyone interested in working with animals. \
Good day.  Loved seeing the gorillas up close!\
Overall fantastic day with friendly knowledgeable staff. \
This course was so worthwhile. I was quite clueless as to how I felt it would be but it was one of the best experiences. Mark and Chris were so knowledgable and made me so jealous of all the amazing things they've accomplished! The lectures were so informative and useful (plus saved physically in the folder you get with the course) and the practical sessions were great. This course was incredibly rewarding and really cemented in my head why I want to work in a zoo to help conservation efforts. Plus there is nothing more rewarding than seeing an animal respond so well to the enrichment you've put your heart into designing and making!\
Not knowing what to expect I found it an excellent experience, thoroughly enjoyed the session. well run good equipment. Thanks to all concerned\
Really fun experience with some excellent results that I'm proud of! The trainers Mark & Chris were friendly, funny, got involved and encouraged you to try anything. Recommended!\
fantastic , but the only thing I would change is- a more in-depth  briefing and a diagram of the structure we are building as some of us got confused with the bit we were making and would of made much more sense if we had seen a picture or drawing of it on a board or paper...... other than that it was great\
Crackin' day. Really nice to see the donkeys using our best enrichment efforts.\
\
So inspiring and fulfilling \
Based largely on the feedback I received from participants as I was unable to be present for most of it. Thoroughly impressed and would/have recommended to others.\
Videos were excellent. Would be great if perhaps course content + videos could be made available via website link? Thanks so much again\
Incredibly helpful, interesting and enjoyable course.\
Good trainer\
The course was excellent particularly because of the trainer's enthusiasm and passion for the subject matter, and his energy and light hearted approach.\
\
\
Very good enjoyed. \
\
\
I found the course only ok. I\'82\'c4\'f4m am not fully convinced if this is the course for us. However, I will stick with it and see where it takes us. \
\
\
\
Overall the course was great.  I think the room was too small.  The room we moved to for the exam on Friday was better.\
\
\
General communication information and styles was excellent. I don't have to give feedback so it wasn't really relevant but I know it was relevant to others. I would have liked some role-play scenarios on getting agreement from others but that might be a different course. \
Very thought provoking course but also good practical advise / tips on what I can try in 'real life'.\
Very interesting course, delivered well, Orla was very engaging and adaptive to audience. Enjoyed the excercises and felt comfortable participating which I usually wouldnt\
Too extensive/massive for a day. It should be ministrated  in 2 days.\
Would have like a little more time on the influencing section\
More useful than I thought it would be. Activities kept me engaged.\
Excellent course, great mix of theory and activities.\
Orla was great. Kept course very informative and interesting.\
\
\
Another great day\
\
\
\
\
Another great day \
\
\
\
I liked the course and the trainer made it fun to learn. \
Everything worked out very well\
\
\
Really enjoyed the roleplay elements, game me a lot to reflect on \
\
This was the first session of a 4 part course.  It quite rightly assumed that the participants were interested in management and leadership and that they also had some level of experience at this level. The course was therefore pitched quite high which meant that the basics basic materials were acknowledged.  This saved on time and kept up the momentum.  I liked John's direct attitude. I enjoyed going back over the notes and the additional reading that was prompted by the notes.\
There was some reference to coaching young teams during the presentation - while this can be useful to put something in context it may have been overused. It would be good to have possible case study information to reference after the training. Good to get the reference material after the meeting but it might be helpful to refer to it more during the presentation to get more familiar with the content\
Peter was absolutely brilliant, his insights and delivery were extremely engaging and he explained the content in a really helpful manner. He is passionate about MSP and it\'82\'c4\'f4s application. \
\
\
\
The course content was sufficient in terms of what it set out to achieve, however, although I was able to keep up with the pace, I feel there was some content that may have been too quickly covered (glossed over), this was probably due to the volume and time available?  The attendee introductions and approach to introduction although a test in itself, was probably a little too ambitious... I do feel that everyone should be able to introduce themselves to the trainer, so based on the time available, maybe a more basic individual introduction was more appropriate?   The day and content was quite relevant though! and enjoyable. \
\
\
\
\
Very good course\
\
\
\
\
\
Would of like to get course notes at the start of the class to write notes in on them. Can tell 8 days trying to be pushed into 4 \
Came accross clear \
Not all attendees have a management role . Some aspects of the course lost on people. \
\
\
Very good \
\
The trainer was very familiar with all of the content and had a nice approach to getting his points across! Some of it was a little repetitive, but overall, I would recommend the trainer and will hopefully learn something that I can apply to my position when all 4 modules are complete.\
An engaging and relevant course.  \
Exelent presenter Coear prepared  Was able to act as a friend and a foe \
Principles of content where better demonstrated through practice.  Would be easier to grasp if content was more related to real examples within company.\
Very good, look forward to trialing \
I found the course to be very good. The trainer was excellent. However, this is only the first step to we have a long way to go to see if this is actually going to be beneficial to our company. I really hope it is...\
Very good and thought proviking courses which was very well delivered and will help to improve our business practices\
Very good at keeping the audience interested throughout. Very enthusiastic and great craic. \
Mike was very helpful and informative\
\
\
\
Slides need to be consistent.  some of the slides did not fit in the box or were reduced to a much smaller font size.\
\
For me, there was a bit too much focus on traditional project management methodologies and not enough on agile - could benefit from giving more time to agile \
\
\
Lot of content n a limited time but well worth it. \
\
Course was well rab and definetely has   imporovements for your personal and private life.\
\
\
\
Gave good techniques to act with when feeling stressed and to look for support when necessary\
A bit repetitive, and maybe could have been fit into half a day. A lot more about mindfulness than about practical ways to build resilience \
Good course\
A well presented course lovely calming tone from Presenter. \
\
\
\
Se\uc0\u8730 \'b0n ran a an excellent course, it was very well pitched and the fact he knows a lot about our organisation helped and made the course content very relevant.  In addition he explained most of the concepts very well.  I felt the part of the course which was slightly confusing was the build/development of the Benefits map and how the benefits tie into the outcomes. Overall I was very happy with the day.\
I had expected a more practical course on methods of measurement and identification of benefits. However what we received was very useful and started at the beginning fo the process whereas I was already leaping forward.  I think the titel should be expanded to state benefits realisation management as it more fully reflects the fact that the course isn't about how to realise benefits but instead how to manage the process.  I picked up several areas to bring back & implement - always the sign of a good course  \
The course was very beneficial , I was happy to attend and it was presented in a very professional way .  The small group around the table worked very well with lots of involvement , everyone seemed at ease and happy to participate .  I would recommend  this course to others and I thanked my manager for encouraging  me to attend .\
Really enjoyed this training course , was very detailed and answered a lot of my question. This was my first management course and i look forward to building on this course in the future.\
\
Deirdre did an excellent Job. She had the full attention of everyone in the room. At no stage did I feel bored.   Deirdre uses great techniques in promoting participation from course attendees. This created a great atmosphere within a group of strangers.  She has exceptional communication skills.  In my opinion the course content was very well put together.   \
The course was expertly delivered by Deirdre.  I learned so much in the course.  \
I found the course very beneficial  excellent  tutor, \
I found Deirdre to be very interesting, great at getting the important points across to us all and held everyone's interest,  Delighted I done this course I can genuinely say I have left with some ideas on how I can improve my ways of communicating in a more positive way and to use a different approach in getting employees to respond to  the many work requests that my  job would entail, Many thanks Deirdre\
More time is needed \
\
Was hoping for more on Modus and less on project - nothing wrong with what was presented but maybe an overview of Modus and its structure as it pertains to the HSE use\
Thank You, was very informative\
I picked up some slick ways of doing things in MS Project that are relevant to my day to day tasks as a Project Manager. It  would be great to get a chance for more training at an advanced level to cover baseline and actuals and presentations \
\
\
Great practical course and well facilitated by Joe.\
\
Very useful course - would highly recommend.\
Grand Job Joe\
\
\
\
Really worthwhile.\
\
Joe is a very knowledgeable trainer and made an effort to customize the examples to our organization. Would definitely recommend  the course to those looking to expand their Excel capabilities.\
Excellent course. Joe was a patient and informative instructor. Would definitely recommend \
Really good and informative. Gave insights into aspects of the program I had been unfamiliar with and revealed more about what the programme could do. \
\
\
Very good, didn't rush through any details.\
\
\
\
The course trainer was clearly very knowledgeable and experienced in the area.  He gave practical examples to illustrate the applicability of all the theory areas.\
very GOOD WEEK\
I really enjoyed the course.  It was extremely relevant to my job.  The practical group work proved very beneficial in so far that I could see different opinions.  I went away inspired with new ideas to apply to my own PMO.\
I think we should have done some pre work to help the flow of the day \
\
\
\
Hi there, I found that the course was very text book based I.e. I think I would have learned as much just by reading the book so I found that there was no real benefit in attending, unfortunately.\
Some very minor houskeeping items: Breakout work was required, but the room did not readily facilitate this. The room was slightly cold. Afternoon refreshments did not arrive on time.   It would be helpful to supply blank templates for the current/future state analyses of both the Case Study and our actual projects.  This would help avoid any ambiguity in the questions as well.  Overall, this course added to my understanding of PMOs and there are several aspects that I will undertake in my role. There are some very helpful guidelines to work with, and good advice on best practices. And a lot of work for me to to do!  Thanks very much.\
I feel that the course was at the right level for me and very informative.  The workshops were very beneficial and I have come back to work with a new vision for my PMO, new ideas and more importantly a plan for the future.\
I thoroughly enjoyed the course and have a much better understanding of how a PMO should be built and run\
I really enjoyed the course, thank you Sean, Martina\
I felt a lot of time on this course was spent on the areas of programme management and outlining the various different roles of those involved in that.  I thought this was a 'nice to know', but not really what I thought the course would be about.  It seemed to me that the course was most suited to those operating in a programme management structure in their organistion, and that isn't the case for me.  Even to the point that benefits are identified and measured at the programme level rather than the project level and that project managers walk away when the project has been implemented.  This doesn't apply in my situation.  Also, the benefits part of the programme didn't really start until about 3pm in the afternoon, and since that is what is what the programme is billed as being about- I felt it took too long to get into that.  I would suggest that this part needs to start earlier in the day, I also think the course could be enhanced if there was time for participants to identify benefits for their own projects/programmes.  I also felt that more time could have been spent on being clear about the differences in terminology between the differences between 'outputs', 'outcomes', 'capabilities', and 'benefits'.  I didn't find the exercises matching the statements with the words a useful exercise that aided my learning, it was simply a quiz.  The programme information says:  delegates will be able to 'Create, maintain and adjust a Benefits Profile document' and  'Create, assess and track a detailed Benefits Realisation Plan'.  I would argue that we didn't do either of these .  I would be very interested in getting a benefits profile document and a benefits realisation plan that could be used as a template? I think Sean was a good trainer but I was dissatisfied with the programme content.  I think the programme content and its description are mismatched.  On a positive note there was very good interaction amongst participants and one participant was highly experienced which added to the quality of the conversation.  \
Rectangular tables would be more beneficial.\
\
Well run course with lots of practical work\
Absolutely brilliant!  Many thanks!\
Very good course, well presented with a lot of course content\
\
\
\
\
The trainer was facilitating and listened to peoples concerns, while effectively teaching the principles of Benefits Realisation\
Joe was a very personable and helpful trainer. The attendees had varying degrees of excel knowledge and therefore it was challenging for Joe to cover everything for all individuals but his knowledge of excel is excellent and he provided some excellent tips and short cuts for the more advanced users. \
The peer learning at the course was exceptional last Friday and I thought that Sean facilitated it brilliantly.  I thought the course in the morning should have focussed on the subject of Benefits Realisation earlier - there was a lot of time spent on project / programme mgmt - which I thought was well known to the audience attending. \
More case studies, to take away from the course would be very helpful. (More couldn't be covered on the day as there is a lot of detail to discuss).  The facilities were excellent.\
Well delivered course with good interaction and practical examples. \
\
\
The course itself is hard, a lot to learn in 3 days. Regarding the facilities the hotel is nice but the room itself didn't have proper natural light which made me feel more tired. The lunch was amazing but I'd say that some savoury option for refreshment would be nice.\
\
As course trainer, Sean was exceptionally knowledgeable, and clearly an expert in his field.   There was a huge amount of information to digest within the five day course - and by day 5 I was somewhat blinded by the volume.  The course could have been enhanced with some more specific pre-read, perhaps provision of the course text in advance - this would have allowed me to focus more during the course on really understanding the material, as opposed to a rote learning exercise in order to pass the exam. The course would have benefited from a more interactive delivery style - given the volume of material, I understand that this may be challenging, but overall, I think it would help to cement long term learning.\
\
Some areas of repetition and some aspects over explained e.g garage video for 5 s\
Excellent course well presented highly relevant and venue and facilities were excellent \
It would be good to be prewarned to think about a few processes in your work  place in advance so that you could be supported to look at them, rather than thinking on the spot\
Unfortunately a lot of the stuff covered in the course I was already familiar with, however there were elements that were new to me. One thing I'd suggest is to tailor the course content to services if there are no attendees from manufacturing etc\
There was some work on flip charts that could have been on slides and feel i didn\'82\'c4\'f4t capture all content \
Very enjoyable course with a very knowledgeable trainer. \
\
Firstly the opinions noted below are my personal opinions.  Overall very disappointed with the course. I felt we spent an awful lot of time talking about Projects, Project structure, Portfolios, Business Cases, Programmes, Organisational Structures, Committees, Governance, Roles etc. We all know all about this, we did not attend the course to learn about this.  I spoke up late morning to ask when we were going to get to benefits realisation as we were just covering projects and programmes etc. which we all knew about. Sort of felt my concerns when raised were skipped over by the instructor. A number of other attendees told me they agreed with me during one of our breaks.  The OldField Council Case Study and exercises were completely pointless and not entirely to do with benefits realisation. A lot of students felt the same.  It was exactly 3:10 p.m. when we started to talk about benefits realisation (Page 66 of the slide deck handout), I wrote the time down. This left little to know time for us (students) to really explore the subject matter we were there for.  If we were to break the course down to actual time spent then we spent three quarters of the overall time (4.5 of 6 hours) on the first two thirds of the course, which was only partially relevant to the course subject matter, and one quarter of the overall time (1.5 of 6 hours) on the remaining one third of the course which was covering the subject matter. We flew through it, little or no time for questions (IMO).  We were provided with no sample Benefits Realisation templates to bring with us to consider using, no end to end Benefits Realisation map or plans, no list of reasons to implement Benefits Realisation into your Project Management (which some of us need to sell and promote to senior management to get them to understand it and the success it brings), no draft working examples for us to review and consider.  In my opinion the balance of the course is all wrong and needs a complete rethink. Nothing personal against the instructor it\'82\'c4\'f4s the course content and flow and balance that are wrong, not his delivery or engagement.  Finally 10 of the 14 students were from the Public Sector, so the tax payer was ultimately paying their course fees. Not great use of taxpayers money.  More than happy to discuss. Regards\
Based on the course overview at the time of booking I expected more emphasis on the details of Benefits Management. Too much time was spent on the overview of programmes and the business case, it was 3pm before we first heard specifically about Benefits Management Strategy, Benefit Profiles and the Benefits Realisation Plan; there wasn't sufficient time given to the area that was the purpose of the course and the reason I attended the course.  Overall I was very unhappy with the course content and how it was presented.\
A lot of time was spent on the Business case which although relevant to identifying benefits, is more relevant to Project and Programme Management courses. I would have preferred more time to be spent on the practical elements of identifying and measuring benefits, running benefits workshops etc and also measurement techniques for intangible benefits, e.g. customer service benefits which in large organisations are difficult to measure. I felt this was not addressed in a meaningful way at the course. Too much time was spent on Business case financials whcih could have been better spent on Benefits measurement. \
More interested in the benefits realisation rather than benefits identification and business case. Last part of course most useful.\
My objectives for taking the course were not fully defined. I can definitely use a good deal of the material presented\
The manual provided not laid out on a 5S way - cumbersome to navigate an difficult to find detail when revising. \
Content: Material - Very useful to have presentation on paper but would be good to have a digital version of it. Page number were missing. Could be good to have a presentation in a more homogeneous format to see where we are at in the DMAIC (more structured presentation). Good to have examples. Good to have Video (shorter and more on different topics could be good). Very useful to work on a practical example as a team and present it. Will be useful as a starting point for a LSS project this year. Very useful to use Pens, post-it, Boards...  \
\
Course material could be improved by including an index section to easily reference topics - besides having to search whole document\
\
Excellent trainer, good knowledge with plenty of examples. asking us to brainstorm on our needs & projects. good repetition & summary of each steps. Difficult to follow at the start, but everything came together after 2days. Maybe some improvement could be brought to the training materials (slides, section in printed version)\
The course was useful in providing technique for time management and resource allocation. The critical path training was key in that it illustrated the various courses that can be followed to achieve the objective. I found it effective and useful.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very enjoyable course \
\
\
\
Very good and very appropriate for my current job.\
A very informative course which is very relevant to my work.\
Good course. Requires some practice afterwards - very good delivery of content.\
\
Great Job. Highly recommended\
Very good course that was Revenue specific. Would have liked more time to delve into low level detail but that is not the fault of the trainer.\
\
Se\uc0\u8730 \'b0n McEvoy was the course instructor. I thought he was excellent, definitely the best training course I have attended in the three plus years I have been at GT. His delivery and knowledge on the content was great. I found the course really interesting and beneficial.\
\
Hotel facilities could of been better, room was either freezing cold or roasting hot with air con machine. Lunch was a big meal where soup and sandwich would of suffice (two days waiting over 40mins for food even though we gave the time for lunch)   \
There was a lot of content to take in over the 3 days. I learn in a practical way by doing and it would have helped if I had time to practice or discuss the content in groups in the class room during the course. \
Perhaps requirement to stretch to 3 days\
The course was run very efficiently and effectively; however, an extra day would have been beneficial\
 Good course - the presentation materials and examples could be updated . The video (toast example) looks like for the 1970s in all aspects , and a service delivery example better than goods manufacturing context.    Would be good to include also actual example of completed Novartis yellow belt projects and material to learn from and apply e.g. from Hyderbad, Czech elsewhere\
\
I found the class very informative and I found the trainer Elsie very good at delivering the training , very clear and enjoyable.\
For Practitioner I think it would be helpful to have the course taught over three days rather than two.\
The course was very much 'being talked at'. This made for a long and tiring day. It would have benefited from having more interactive group work. A long day of powerpoint and being talked at minimises the ability to retain information and learning.\
\
Sean was a very good trainer. I think some of the sample exam questions were slightly ambiguous/misleading but the manual was good.\
Over communicate that attendees should consider a process to improve prior to attending the course.\
A very intense but enjoyable and informative course  Well worth the time and effort  Due to the intensity and volume of material to go through and absorb, I would recommend that the Practitioner Course be done immediately after the Foundation Course \
\
Course was very rushed A lot of lingo to take in Some business scenarios and storytelling would have made it more interesting and relevant \
I found the course material very interesting, but as it was condensed into a 1 day course, I feel a second day would have been very beneficial.   With that said, I expect all of the coaching sessions to compensate for this. This was defintely a worthwhile use of my time, and would be interested in continuing with further qualifications in this area. \
Great course but maybe a bit too much for one day.\
The course was overall very good, the only point I would raise as negative would be the time. I think it would be more beneficial to have the training divided in two session in different days. The training materials is extensive and, even if the trainer was very good to go through it all, I felt I bit more time was needed to focus on some of the slides.\
\
\
LEAN Intro Novartis \
Lean Intro Novartis\
Novartis\
\
\
An informative and enjoyable workshop with plenty of interaction, discussion and learning. Already started to put the learning into practice.\
Rich was very engaging, and brought humour and insight to his lessons through personal anecdotes and observation s of current practice.  \
Feedback: I could not download the course presentation from the VLM as the course was not visible under my programme. However the trainer was very helpful and provided me with a copy. \
Michelle was a very supportive tutor and she was able to understand how I could utilise my professional experience within the course. She was a pleasure to work with and any student would be very lucky to have her as a tutor. The course has enabled me to assist my company to put in place new strategies and for me personally to take on the day to day running of hr for the organisation \
Really useful day, I feel prepared for the exam now and Michelle was very knowledgeable and a great tutor. \
This is a good workshopfor an overall perspective on resourcing and talent managment (helicopter view). It helped me to be able to discuss the subjects together with people from other sectors and backgrounds. The workshop helped to ensure I understood all that I have been reading through and to prepare for what I need to be able to show by each of the learning outcomes.\
Amanda is a wonderfully supportive and experience  trainer with a strong positive coaching style.  I would never have completed without her support- thank you \
The content was good and the atmosphere relaxed and open encouraging people to participate.  I would suggest perhaps not reading out the info directly from each slide - if that info is there I can read it faster.  I would much rather hear further information you can provide from your wealth of experience :) This would help in meeting our target of finishing by 4:30.\
I am very thankful to the Watson Martin Team for the great support they offered during my studies even as I traveled across continents and relocated bases. I was still able to keep working on my assignments at my own time until completion.  Special thanks to my Trainer Alisoun Nisbet MCIPD & programme adviser Ionela Vasii.  Forever grateful!\
I was initially booked onto the wrong workshop, but spotted it soon enough to get it amended, it then took a while to get the right documents on the VLE.  I was organized and printed the workshop slides as soon as I had access to them, only to find they were slightly different (mainly in respect of the order) on the day because they had been updated further. With all that said I thoroughly enjoyed the day, Amanda was a fantastic tutor and I really enjoyed her breadth of knowledge, honesty and her welcoming approach.\
\
\
Brilliant \
Room much better. A lot of overlap with Resource and Talent planning.\
A good lecturer. \
Good course and pace but there was a lot of cross over with the previous module on Resourcing and Talent\
\
Copies of PowerPoint slides are not course materials. Some slide builds meant content not included within the printed materials available. It meant more time note taking which meant topics covered in the workshop were sometimes missed.\
There is a lot to cover off for one exam \
The course covered the exam content in detail and we had the ability to cover any areas we needed clarification on \
\
Great training seasion and facilitator she was friendly knowledge and to the point \
\
No Gulten free lunch\
The course was not only professionally run but also enjoyable and fast paced.  At no point was I left not knowing what to do or how to proceed with the subject matter.  The training was diverse and not all desk based with opportunity to work with different people on seperate sections of the coursework. Faultless delivery - trainer had a super demeanor and was very engaging throughout.\
\
Windowless room is not ideal, but otherwise ok. Need more power sockets in room to support going paperless \
Only downside was travelling 3 hours each way to London! Davina is an excellent trainer and made the course very engaging. Would really appreciate if I could do the workshop in Birmingham instead of London as I am so tired that it makes it hard to concentrate. \
\
Thank you very informative \
\
\
\
Facilitator was knowledgeable on the subject matter including exam materials. Course was really interesting and would have loved for it to have been 2 weeks earlier to help start the assignment.\
I think it would have been helpful to have slightly longer; it was originally meant to be a full day, but ended up at only 4 hours. The trainer was brilliant though; engaging, knew the subject matter really well, answered questions well and with ease and helped us understand what was expected from us for each question on the template.\
\
The course content was good and the additional information Leanne was able to give us was very useful.  She has a great presentation style which was easy to follow. \
The trainer was great at explaining the content of the unit. She was clear and easy to understand, allowing for conversation and open discussion.\
A really well delivered class that has made me feel much more comfortable about my assignment for this module\
\
\
Leanne was a great facilitator, she was really knowledgable and friendly and happy to answer questions at any point, and always knew the answer.  I would say its been the best experience so far on the apprenticeship, and I think that is to do with Leanne being a great facilitator.    \
A very well informed session. I came away feeling very positive about writing my essay\
The high scores are down to the delivery, which is all down to Elaine Wood. It is so clear that Elaine genuinely cares, she wants you to do well and have all the tools and knowledge to succeed.  Elaine has made a huge difference to my CIPD experience. Without her guidance, care and support I doubt I would be on track with my learning. I am now looking forward to the workshops and the rest of the course. If Watson Martin have a recognition award please give it to Elaine. Fantastic engagement, delivery and style. Thank you so much. Lisa white \
\
Receptionist great but not much freedom for kitchen but understand that\'82\'c4\'f4s a REED restriction.\
\
I really enjoyed this session. Joe had included activites for us to complete which felt really aligned with the work activities we have to complete.   the session was really interactive and engaging and Joe is able to answer any queries and provide guidance as he has lots of knowledge. he makes the session interactive always ensuring everyone gets a say and provides us with challenges and questions to get us thinking.   It was an enjoyable session and I have learnt so much. \
No reflection on the trainer, however not all resources were made available on the VLE in time for the workshop, ie the presentation slides  Joseph made everything really clear and concise, and ensured we felt prepared for the following assignments\
\
\
\
\
Leanne is really helpful and punctual.\
\
\
\
Really good course and enables me to go back and hopefully complete the Learning outcomes to a good standard and be able to pass these modules. \
\
\
\
\
Leanne was brilliant and explained things very clearly. I felt very comfortable asking questions throughout the workshop. \
Only lost point was due to missing the print outs - however my fault for not reading the change in the joining instructions and Melinda acted on it quickly and printed some out for those of us that wanted them. And now I know for next time!   Only other thing is that due to several other modules finishing early, about half of the group had assumed this would be the same and hadn't planned for the scheduled 5pm finish, which meant Melinda had to rush slightly. However, for those of that were able to stay she was brill at addressing any questions :-) \
I want to thank Michelle for all her support and guidance she provided.\
Assigned trainer, Louise Hill, was exceptional.  Available to talk, patient, and provided insights and knowledge on every module  Classroom courses were well facilitated\
\
\
Fabulous trainers, easy to find venue & brilliant workshop that helps massively with the course! Now we have a WhatsApp group to support each other on the course! Thank you Elaine & Divina \uc0\u63743 \'fc\'f2\'e4\
Great knowledge and enthusiasm from both trainers, looking forward to next session. \
\
\
Alisoun was a fantastic tutor and very supportive throughout the programme. Good content and delivered and planned well \
Alisoun was a fantastic tutor and very supportive throughout the programme. Good content and delivered and planned well \
\
I had a few troubles with the content and materials being incorrect at the start of my qualification, especially where links had not been updated. There was also a module that did not have a relevant level workbook towards the end of my qualification, although luckily when I called to discuss this I was pointed to a very helpful ebook by one of your employees.  I found a lot of the content interesting and applicable to my work, but I think this could have been delivered in a far more engaging way. \
I have nothing but good to say about Watson Martin. I had previously signed up to another online learning portal, after one session I realised it was amateur at best. I found WM who are professional, organised and have the best tutors. Their workshops were fun and inspiring and I learned so much. My tutor, Amanda, was and is phenomenal - she gave guidance but also let me find the answers so I learned. It was just the right pitch. I don't think I would have passed by Level 5 without WM, they are so spot on it kept me focused. Thank you!\
\
\
\
I prefer having printed slides to write on during the workshop. I will remember to bring my own next time!!\
Really interesting course and Melinda was very engaging. \
\
\
Re:accommodation - next door very loud, cheering etc. Very disrupting.\
I've really enjoyed the workshops as they have given me a good overview of several key HR topics, which has improved my overall knowledge of the field.\
There is a lot of material and theory to get through and in my case I need to look them up and get more familiar. But elaine directed us very ably through the learning objectives and tried to help us not to get confused. \
Elaine Woods training style and delivery was acceptional. By far the best trainer I have encountered. Really hope I get Elaine again as her methods suit my style of learning.  Thank you Elaine! :) \
\
Very well structured and presented\
Elaine was lovely and very knowledgable of this module. Reed turned the lights off for an hour half way through which wasn\'82\'c4\'f4t very helpful nor professional on their behalf. \
\
I  think this was actually the wrong course for me but it was a decision made by without understanding of my personal training needs, so perhaps these ratings are slightly unfair, but it is how I see the course.  The word counts were very low and I found working to these limits challenging.  I also found there to be a lack of explicit instruction that information could and should be added as appendices and attachments. I only found this out when I spoke to my adviser meaning I was working to a very limited word count and supplying exactly what was requested in the assignment but finding this was not completing the assignment.  Where I then had to provide other documents I was having to re-assess completed work which meant double work.  I cannot fault my advisor at all,  she was helpful, informative and available when I needed her.  Overall, the best part of the course. \
Managed to be both engaging and informative, focused but with room for discussion without overrunning or going off on tangents. \
Not having any experience in the HR and having done the course at home was really challenging to understand some requirements or questions until I looked from other point of view. Overall it was great experience and tutor very lovely and fun.\
Some of the materials couldn't be opened and/or printed and no-one was able to help or provide in a different format. Access to Melanie was difficult - very strict on the number of times able to have a conversation.  Didn't feel i could contact her outside of pre-arranged times nor was there an alternative.  Felt quite isolated throughout the course with little support available.  To some degree expect that on a distance course but support networks just aren't there on this one.  My second assignment took over 6 weeks to be marked and returned and only then because i chased it.  This delayed being able to get on with the next one which meant i was going to be charged for extra time, putting additional pressure on me to get it done in time.  I had no verbal help or feedback on my last assignment.  Most providers will come to their clients - i have had providers come as far as Wales to see us.  If i wanted to have face to face contact i would have had to have come to WM in London.  Whilst i learnt a great deal and am really pleased to have done it, i would not choose this method again or Watson Martin.  It is a shame as we have a rapidly expanding HR/L&D department so are always looking for providers for this type of qualification. \
Amanda was a great tutor picked up my learning style very quickly. Offered great support and encouragement throughout. Most importantly she was very responsive which was so helpful especially when you were stuck and needed further advice. \
Melinda was a fantastic lecturer, who had an indepth knowledge of the subject.  Her delivery of the course was excellent.\
\
Excellent course slightly confusing about CIPD assessment and we gave feedback on this at the venue. \
Very good and knowledge course trainer. Very warm and welcoming. She was also a source of good advice.\
A lot of information to take in and a lot.of.listening. Maybe the day could have been broken up with tasks or quick activities as there is alot of information. Really useful though and it is so much clearer to me about what I have to do. \
The workshop was really informative and helped to give an insight of how to go about the work that needs to be completed. Lots of great tips too. Lovely environment and facilities. Thanks!\
Overall everything was great and definitely have more of a contextualised understanding of what needs to be done. However, I do think that the CIPD layout of 5UIN seems very overly complicated, although when it was explained it made more sense.  Also the Student Assessment form to fill out beforehand should be done in the workshop as it is hard to print it due to it being an interactive map.\
Really enjoyed the course, Leanne Bucknor was really patient and thorough. Leanne took the time to ensure we all understood what is expected and helped us by using live examples. Thank you \
\
Joseph is a fantastic helpful trainer, would highly recommend these sessions. \
Perhaps have access to a drinks machine so the trainer doesn't have to keep getting more hot water?\
\
I think we could have fitted in LO3 \
The course was a great introduction to the unit.\
Evelyn was great she knew the subject matter so so well, and it was apparent early on that she was capable of a workshop of 20+ people.   Most I have written down and retained in a workshop to date!\
The content/handout layout and location on the VLE could be better. The locations aren\'82\'c4\'f4t always obvious and some documents like the templates are quite \'82\'c4\'f2busy\'82\'c4\'f4.\
The content/handout layout and location on the VLE could be better. The locations aren\'82\'c4\'f4t always obvious and some documents like the templates are quite \'82\'c4\'f2busy\'82\'c4\'f4.\
\
Mirissa was fantastic - very engaging session. \
\
The pace of the course changed after lunch which I felt was useful, We started to have more in depth conversation around the learning required to achieve our learning objectives.   I feel that I really benefited from the learning delivered, however I did have an expectation that we would be provided an overview of the course, navigating the VLE, confirmed dates and access to the one file.  Which I felt was a gap. \
Evelyn was a great teacher who was really engaging - I hope more of our workshops are with her.\
Very enlightening and packed full of information. Brilliantly delivered by Anne. Very enjoyable.\
\
Very good course. Interesting and informative. Useful and practical.\
\
Would\'82\'c4\'f4ve good to have healthy snacks and a printed handout that we can take away. \
Have really enjoyed the whole course. Leanne is extremely knowledgable and puts everyone at ease\
Facilities at this venue aren\'82\'c4\'f4t as nice as the other location but are still sufficient for what we are doing.  Leanne has always been a supportive trainer and encourages us to share experience which has really helped me. \
Leanne excellent, very knowledgeable and it's been thoroughly enjoyable. \
\
Evelyn is clearly very knowledgeable and shared some useful information with us, and opened up opportunities for us to have some great conversations. Really enjoyed the interaction of learning with others. On the downside, Evelyn said originally it was only supposed to be covering one of the three learning outcomes for this module, but that it had been changed to include two, and it felt like it - it felt like we covered a bit too much in not quite enough detail. I also feel that it would have been better to have this workshop earlier, so that we then had more time afterwards to consider our assignment etc.\
\
I would have liked more time to discuss Learning Outcome 2. \
\
The course seemed pre-mature as we went straight into models and detail which was good. However, we did not know the expected requirements of us, it was not until we informed the trainer we were missing key info such as dates for assignment, what the actual question was and how we start to write the dissertation that it became a slight bit clearer. We were also told that there would be another webinar for LO3, which is worrying seeing as we need to hand the first draft in, within 4 weeks and we did not know that this would be needed.  The morning was slow and the afternoon picked up in pace. Evelyn was a good facilitator and did her best to be agile in the moment sharing additional info.\
The trainer was engaging and easy to understand.  Encouraged involvement from everyone and was on hand to help when completing team work in smaller groups\
Evelyn was great, although there was a lot to cover in time that we where there.  There seems to be a lot of information that the trainer assumed we knew, which we had no idea.  For example, that the 3rd LO would be delivered via Webinar, where as a lot of us assumed it would be covered on the day.  Also, that we knew when our assignment would be due however we'd never been shared this information.\
A lot of the content about SWOT and PESTLE we'd already covered on the induction. It would have been more useful to have made a start looking at LO3 \
Would like printed materials. Suggested it's due to feedback (assume environment!?) Why no print offs but you need to bring the printed slides for note taking. \
\
\
Very helpful course and Anne engaged in all questions \
\
Course met it\'82\'c4\'f4s objectives well but I felt it could have been concluded in a much quicker manor.\
\
\
\
I learnt information that I will use practically on a daily basis. \
Great course overall, only feedback that at times the noise in the adjoining kitchen/meeting rooms can be very loud which is distracting.\
I actually emailed Watson Martin during the day to enquire how to provide feedback as Melinda was absolutely fabulous. I really enjoyed the day and feel very comfortable in prepping for this exam now. Melinda explained things very well, and also opened up a lot of interesting discussion. I really enjoyed her style more than the workshop for the HRC exam. I felt comfortable in asking questions, and would have preferred to have had her as my advisor throughout the programme. \
The self-learning element of the course is very difficult for kinaesthetic learners. It would be helpful to have more video / youtube links, and seminars or webinars to support the learning (even if these are pre-recorded). \
\
excellent course and trainer. Richards enthusiastiam made the the course very interesting and I took a lot from those two days. I found the course itself to be a riverbank. Thank you \
Room was a little noisy and warm with no windows\
A lot to take in. Activities helped the group understand some of the questions. Elaine would check we were all understanding as we went through the course.   \
Course content and delivery great\
Throughly enjoyable. Tutors passion for the subject clearly shone through \
Could not have done it without Melanie. Turned round essay marking extremely quickly and made herself available at short notice if I ever needed some direction. \
I simply do not believe I could have completed the course without the team at Watson Martin. The support was outstanding all the way through, the various workshop experts were right on point and focused on learning objectives and ways to deliver those through their presentation. I must also praise and thank Louise Hill for her overall support, her ability to offer extremely constructive feedback, and without whom I would not have progressed as much and enough to pass.\
Very interactive Relevant information  Richard was very enthusiastic and engaging \
Very informative and useful course. Looking forward to spending time on the riverbank!  Highlighted some really key points to focus on. \
\
Unfortunately the sign for the building name was missing and it made it difficult to find where to go.\
\
Very good, well structured and interactive with a very knowledgeable instructor \
\
\
\
Excellent course with a lot of content and useful material. i found the trainer to be enthusiastic and inspiring. My only (minor) criticism would be that the course materials could have been more comprehensive - it is hard to remember everything without good notes. There were a lot of acronyms to recall. \
\
\
Spent a great deal of time at the beginning trying to get slide notes sorted because they hadn\'82\'c4\'f4t been sent in time\
It's been a pleasure and a very interactive workshop that I strongly recommend to any individual who's eager to enrich and acquire new tools for a better life skills.  Kindest regards!\
\
Good for a well rounded look skills to be used in life and at work \
Quite fast paced, could be spread out over more days\
Kerry was lovely, really informative and would let us ask questions whenever we needed to.\
have the slides available straight away would help.  and access to myCPD  however I am fully aware this is no a problem coursed by yourselves - however it will help so we can attempt the course while it's still fresh. \
\
Very Good Course. All questions and theory explained in detail.\
\
The trainer was really useful and helped me to understand what was being asked of me. Initially I think the worksheet can over complicate things and make you worry you don't know what you're doing but she helped to break it down and simplify the worksheet in a way which I understood.\
A thoroughly engaging & useful day. Thank you\
\
\
\
Richard was really friendly and interactive, made it easy to talk about personal scenarios and brought things to life. Really great couple of days and kept me engaged throughout!\
Very good content excellent tools. Think the wider organisation would benefit from this course.\
Really supportive and helpful \
A wider variety of learning tools could help keep content fresh\
Good course, relevant.\
\
Very helpful!  More time should be spent on UIN as personally I feel more difficult that DVP as very different to other assignments.  Example report would be great for UIN. \
Excelent course well presented \
\
\
Well delivered course, suitable for all ranges of management experience. Anne was very knowledgable and made me feel included.\
It was interesting, important things all manager should be aware of.\
\
Brilliant course leader - very knowledgable and interesting\
Really enjoyed the course and found it incredibly informative.\
\
\
Excellent Trainer, workshop and delivery.  Good all round course and very instructive in the overall recruitment practice and process, retention and talent management. As an aside from the workshop, do feel slightly dissapointed in the overall course content of 7RTM - was hoping for more material on actual 'Resourcing', ideas for finding candidates in a tight market - discussion on traditional methods of finding candidates- how this is working for Recruiters/HR, new ways of finding staff, technological advances - i.e.  thoughts on social media etc.\
There was a delay in getting started after some confusion about handouts.  We weren't aware that we were to start bringing our own slides, but Amanda was able to print each of us a copy. \
Amanda was very engaging and I liked her teaching style. My first module, and I'm looking forward to the next.\
Rich demonstrated his years of experience and knowledge when teaching this course. I got more out of this course than I had originally imagined and am more than happy to recommend Rich to others. Excellent course and trainer. Thank you\
Rich has been really good deliviring the material of the workshop, specially the way of interacting with the attendees and making us part of it. \
\
Had a really good experience with the course. Discovered new ideas about how to get the most out of my life.   Would recommend this course to others as it helped refocus my ideas and gave a me a well needed boost.\
I found the course leader very knowledgable and encouraging. He made sure to include everyone and make sure that everyone had a chance to say their piece and that they understood. \
Very helpful course - well tailored to needs. Worth taking a bit more time to introduce exactly what something is before going on to talk about tasks and exceptions.\
Useful content, but delivered at a v fast pace, frequently focussed at a level of critical evaluation rather than introducing concepts. Clearly lots of knowledge, applied in a practical way, but courses in future could give a quick overview of tools etc before evaluating them...\
\
\
At times the basics could have been covered before examples or extreme cases\
The course is definitely too much work for fast tracking. There's a lot of information to take in and I think distance learning fast track with working is hard. But the course itself was great and interesting!\
\
\
My tutor was helpful but was slightly less interactive as I expected.  But I guess the this is the cons with distance learning.   Overall I am satisfied.\
\
Would have preferred more information on skills to make a good presentation excellent (rather than just how to do a good presentation)\
Neil was very insightful and I thought the training was very valuable.\
\
Melinda was EXCELLENT. Brilliant coach, tutor and sounding board. I thoroughly enjoyed working with her. The course questions were well structured, and I enjoyed the freedom to write about my own experience and tie it back to employment law.\
Alisoun, my trainer, was simply outstanding! She was approachable and listened to me to support me as best as possible. I may not have finished the course if it was not for her. I am thankful she took over from my first trainer when she left the organisation. I could not commend her enough. Good course materials but I felt the content on the VLE was a bit thin, although I do understand part of the course is to read additional materials from a variety of resources. \
\
Lack or resources on the VLE for some units and/or not accessible - i.e. broken links to videos etc.   Quite a long term around time for the marking of some assignments and feedback reports not provided for some units until the end of the course! Feedback was at times unclear form the assessor - i.e. what content within assignments needed to be amended and what feedback was given just as an advisory. Louise was knowledgeable and when we spoke helpful in pointing me to further resources when I required more than were available on the VLE. Overall satisfied with the course and tutor - however definitely some areas for improvement. \
The course let me complete at my own pace and fit around my work and home life.  Whenever I chatted with Melanie, she was knowledgeable and always ready with any answers I needed.\
I thought the course was very interesting and my personal tutor was very supportive. I do feel however that I slightly struggled with the distant learn option  due to other committments.   Despite this, I still strive to complete my Level 7 CIPD qualification. \
\
The quality of the teaching was fantastic. My trainer was really knowledgeable and helpful at giving the right amount of feedback to steer me in the right direction. The people who ran the workshops were also great, and I came away from these with a really clear idea of what I needed to do. This course is so practical and relevant.  Admin is not as amazing though. It felt like the customer service element was missing and it was difficult to get a response to emails at times. I was only set up on the vle after completing a few modules and my name was spelt wrong (not the end of the world but a bit frustrating and hard to remember my username!) It would have also been helpful to have my grades entered on here to refer back to.   The content on the vle was amazing. I based all of my study for exams on this and felt really prepared. \
There were no course materials provided at all.  There were no learning sessions on the VLE.  Effectively I paid for someone to give me a subject around which I had to write and then they marked that work.  I feel there should be more material as there is with other flexible providers especially with the amount paid!  I do not feel that Watson Martin overly helped me gain my qualification.  Whilst I appreciate level 7 is self study there were no boundaries or recommended reading.\
\
General issue of content links on the VLE site being out of date and not working. Workbooks need to be re read, lots of typos, spelling mistakes and a few missing sections and diagrams referring to incorrect text.  All of which i highlighted to my trainer. \
\
Great course with the best trainer!  \
I found Davina to be an excellent tutor.  She was very knowlegable and articulate.  Davina presented the couse in an easy to understand fun manner while makeing us really think about the topic.\
very difficult and complex subject translated in a very clear and understandable way\
Really great session. Angela was fantastic.\
Good overview of the subject.  Would have liked more focus on the individual learning outcomes as well as the overall picture.\
\
\
Facility was not adequate, however this has been rectified which is great for those students going forward. \
\
I find Leanne to be really informative and engaging during all of our workshops. She is able to answer queries promptly and give relevant feedback well. I really enjoy coming to the workshops and feel they keep my engaged and being able to share relevant experiences helps in my role. I would love to be able to continue my studies with Leanne if i develop from level 3. \
Room was quite noisy after lunch\
\
\
The course was run well - i would have liked a little bit more information/detail around certain aspects but a good overall view.\
\
\
Leanne is excellent and a credit to the team. Allows open discussions on topics to gain a greater understanding of the subject area.\
I really enjoy the interactive style  and sharing that Leanne encourages. \
\
\
Brilliant company to learn your CIPD qualification with. Very pleased with the training provided in the workshops and online vle.  \
There was a very disturbing noise, that was distracting and made it hard to hear the teacher\
Tech issues at the start delayed the workshop. But this wasn't the tutors fault. \
The course as very well presented and there were a lot of tools that can be used going forward.  It was good to get an understanding of how we should work\
The room had a terrible vibrating sound and apparently this was not the first time this had happened. While this continues the room is not suitable for teaching/ learning, it was extremely distracting and quite often meant that students and teacher lost their train of thought. I would honestly consider not attending another session if it was at this venue until the noise was addressed.\
Very disturbing noise within the building that was quite distracting all day. Not trainers fault but Reed should look into fixing it\
The meeting room that we were in was incredibly noisy which was quite distracting and also gave a few of us a headache which again made it a tad harder to concentrate.\
I was really pleased to have attended this course. I found it very beneficial and the course instructor was very friendly and delivered the course well.\
\
\
\
\
Really good content and the perfect mix of presentation from the trainer, individual tasks and group activities. A really well planned course.\
The course overall was good and very informative. The trainer was lovely and very approachable and friendly. The only downside of the course I felt was the catering for the course and the timings provided were incorrect. \
Thank you for great workshop!\
\
Really enjoyed workshop 1 - Linda was very engaging & motivating. When initially looking on the VLE before attending the workshop, i was worried that I wouldn\'82\'c4\'f4t understand the content etc but Linda explained it really well & i feel confident about completing my first assignment. \
Sophie was very helpful\
Very smouth delivery, interactive and aligned to my needs\
The course is enjoyable given the subject itself is really not that exciting. The trainer is knowledgable and really engaged with each of us. I am pleased with the training that I have received.\
\
Very enjoyable course. I would like to see examples of good and bad reports as part of the training material, so I could relate the topics discussed in the course to some real life examples.\
Neil Davies is a competent and engaging trainer.   He delivered the training in a manner that catered for all styles and knowledge levels ensuring participation and understanding.  The course content is comprehensive and tailoring the report to the needs of the reader. Many thanks, \
\
\
The trainer was amazing - he made sure we all fully understood every aspect of the traning and helped with my coaching. \
I thought the course was brilliant, very engaging and informative.\
\
Fab workshop.  Moving forwards it would be great if we could have more interactive materials in addition to slides, videos, social posts etc.  Room was too small - not enough room for breakouts etc, made it a tough day concentrating! \
Melinda was great, her knowledge of employment law is very detailed\
All was great   They really need to sort out the temperature in that room - it has been an issue every time I have been in there and it does impact the whole day every time.\
\
It was very slow and based largely on general knowledge with little practical experience and understanding\
\
I find Leanne to be a great trainer, she takes time to answer questions and is very thorough in her explanations.\
Amanda was brilliant and I am so glad that I chose the workshop route for my CIPD Level 7, particularly because of the opportunity to meet others on the course and because of the extra knowledge I gained from Amanda, who is clearly very knowledgeable in this field. I gained so much and feel much more confident for my assignment now. \
\
\
\
The workshops are fantastic - I just wish we could have a workshop for all 7 papers. I feel with the other assignments that I really am going in blind and missing out a lot on key material because I am having to research most of it myself. The tutor input is fine but it is usually a 30min call (and no criticism of the tutor as she's very good) but I'm scribbling madly and I'm sure we're missing out key information due to the short timescale. Joseph is a great trainer and I always enjoy meeting the other delegates. Thank you\
\
\
\
\
Melinda was excellent, very knowledgeable and provided a good amount of challenge to our ideas. There was a lot of content to get through - which wasn't a problem, but probably needed an extra half hour added to the session, as it started to feel a little rushed towards the end. \
What I liked: The sessions were very well run, creating a good atmosphere. It was not boring at any time. The trainer managed the time well, keeping things on track and moving things around with zero fuss or impact on participants. The trainer had broad experience and knowledge The course seemed to cover the right topics and in the right order.  I felt motivated to change the way I work in some areas, and I (re-) learnt some important skills. I also reinforced some key principles that I have let slip or lost focus on. What I thought was lacking: More direct reference to an organisation like Cochrane, where we have a small staff but a very large group of non-staff, largely academic, collaborators I thought that the workbook we were given was not well designed or produced. I would have liked some time to develop a personal action plan within the context of the session.\
Training room could have been better.  It wasn't easy for all to sit comfortable to see the screen.  There was a lot of noise from other meetings rooms which was disruptive.\
\
i really enjoyed this course, it covered a vast amount of material and the trainer was very approachable when handling questions from the group.\
Great course and trainer, only point would be that the ladies toilets were unpleasant.\
\
The facilities are poor I wasn't facing the tutor and the screen I was sitting with my back simply because there was no space\
\
\
\
\
Joseph made everything very clear\
I really enjoyed the training the bits around the 5LDP was great I enjoyed the activities around skills, knowledge and behaviour too was really useful to learn around this unit.   My only comment is I would have benefited doing a bit more on the research unit for research and been able to do activity to look into this element more. Maybe having no prior knowledge or experience conducting a research personally I felt it would been beneficial to do a small activity to look into this to assist also group activity to talk about what think might be doing. Maybe look to apply some of the secondary research and what that might look like in an activity.   Then the day would have been evenly more split.   \
For a 'training school' the lay out and set up was very poor.  Tea and coffee making facilities poor, not enough hot water for the 10 people. Small table, not enough room to move around. Room in the corner which maintenance needed access too. Flip chart not easily accessible for the trainer to write on with out having his back to the us. Magnetic flip chart holder and magnets didn't work. Also had a drilling news which got worse through out the day, couldn't be helped but needs looking into.\
I'm sure other students will say the same but there was a constant noise (drilling/building work) throughout the day that made it difficult to engage during certain parts of the workshop  The only other comment is that it would have been useful to have an FAQ to go over some of the basic queries that most students would ask: E.G Can I attend a workshop if I'm not sure I want to do the assessment? What are the deadlines associated with each assessment? \
\
Venue was terrible. There was a like drilling sound that was so distracting for the whole day. 7 hours of drilling. was very distracting\
Everything was perfect apart from the room. The workshop was interrupted by a constant noise which could not be fixed. Whilst not a deal breaker, break out rooms for group work would have been better. Tutor was great, activities great and relative. \
Joseph was incredibly engaging and created a learning environment in which people felt at ease to answer questions and offer opinions straight away. Joseph broke the syllabus into easy to digest sections and I feel much more confident and capable to write the assignments. It was also refreshing and valuable to mix with L&D professionals and gain knowledge, insight and recommendations from outside of my industry.   All in all, a thoroughly enjoyable day and I can't wait for the next one.   \
Leanne is a fantastic trainer, I found her style and knowledge excellent. Can't wait for the next one! \
Very useful - much better set up then when I did the level 3 \
Training was well put together and contained useful exercises. The trainer was engaging, had loads of knowledge, but sometimes used too many business aphorisms instead of plain English. :D\
I would advise that delegates are invited to attend this workshop as soon as possible on their programme so that they can get the maximum out of developing their PDP, and also due to the requirement to complete the research project which can also take many months of research collecting the data.  I suggest highlighting both the requirement to complete the PDP and the research project during the induction call.  I have not had specific discussions with my advisor about the requirement to compete a PDP as part of my coursework. I am 8 months into my programme and I believe that this should have been emphasised to me by my advisor during my first call with her (Davina Jenkins).  I would like to offer sincere thanks to Joseph for his continued support and excellent delivery of these workshops.  He is so enthusiastic about his work, extremely knowledgeable, very personable and very helpful with any questions or queries anyone has during the course - whether it be about the course specifically or other parts of the programme itself. THANK YOU!\
There was a really lot irritating sounds interrupting a lot through the day. The trainer handled it well but it was off putting. \
The course was good but I felt the 3 week lead time for feedback where to long. Also having had 3 trainers duriomy course didn't help my early stages. \
Please note I have rated the second tutor I had Dee as I thought she was very good, although it did take her a while sometimes to mark the papers I sent through.  She was very knowledgeable on the subject.  My first tutor (sorry I cannot remember her name) was poor, she made me feel like I was a child with her approach and I found it hard to understand what she required me to do when she sent back my first draft. The course content and appendices were excellent.\
\
Leanne was a warm, welcoming and knowledgeable trainer.  She instils confidence to help complete the assignments and was very clear and concise in her delivery. \
\
Really enjoyable workshop.  Thank you.\
Such a shame the other students didn't show, but appreciated the 1:1 with Melinda\
Fantastic session - Marissa was amazing! Thank you for calming up and helping us prepare. The day's content and pace were perfect.\
Really helpful workshop Many thanks to Michelle for her patient explanation on different relevant topics \
I thought the workshop went very well, we had good, useful discussions encouraged by Michelle. There was different levels of knowledge and understanding in a small group so Michelle did well to ensure we catered to everyone and got the maximum out of the workshop. I found it incredibly helpful and feel much better about the exam now than I did before.\
\
I think my adviser could have reassured me a little bit more. She was often unresponsive and was away a lot which is understandable, however if I had had more reassurance that I could complete 3 modules in 6 months that would have helped.\
\
\
\
The course materials and tutor were both excellent. I found the course materials were very detailed and easy to understand and provided enough background on each topic to complete assignments effectively. The tutor was very helpful and provided detailed feedback on assignments. \
Some trainers were better than others.  Very knowledgeable and engaging trainers were Melissa and Angela for Employment law and Performance Management  Tutor support was really lacking until I was reaching the end of my contract.\
Initial tutor was problematic to an extent as very hand off and didn't give practical advice nor helped keep on track - once I transferred to Melinda my experience was significantly different and I had the support and direction I needed to successfully finish the course. Very positive experience of Melinda and would recommend her as a tutor to anyone. \
\
\
Dee was an amazing trainer and always on hand to give constructive criticism and advice. Wouldn't  have done it without her and look forward to doing L5 with her.\
I really enjoyed the 3RTO workshop yesterday. some very interesting stuff learnt. \
Hi, just wanted to let you know that the room we were allocated today was really noisy and quite distracting from the course. Also the course content was really intense and we all found it really hard to concentrate in the afternoon (1-3pm) as we only had a 20 min break for lunch at 12:40am (after 3 hours continuous study). An idea would be a 15 min coffee break at 11:30am (after 2 hours study) followed by a 30 min lunch break (after a further 2 hours study). Just an idea.\
I found the two days very interesting plus I picked up some useful tips.\
First day was a bit slow and probably could have been fitted into one day.\
Had a great day - really enjoyed meeting everyone and starting out on my qualification. The only feedback  I would give would be that when I arrived, nobody came to get me from the waiting area and I didn't know that the session was about to start which was a little disorienting. I was also a little concerned that maybe some of the content wasn't covered due to the number of questions that were asked about the assignment (which were handled very well by the train!) but I am confident that Joseph would have ensured that we covered everything that we needed to. Overall, a fantastic day - thank you!\
Joseph explain the content well and cleared everyone\'82\'c4\'f4s concerns about the assignment \
\
would have been useful to have more time on PESTLE - found it hard to relate back to my organisation maybe precourse  work to complete one then analyse as it felt like a lot to cover in one session and it took me a while to grasp it and then translate it back to my work. This might just been me though? External factors and keeping external and not bringing it internal can be difficult to grasp too. Also would been good activity on roles in l and d for different organisation tos be targeted to that might been the group I was in but found the questions not specific enough and group spent time not analysing the team role?  \
\
\
\
\
\
Rich was very good an above average facilitator and kept peoples attention well throughout the course \
Very good course and trainer\
\
Well run course, very informative.\
\
\
Not very nice facilities. Cramped and the air conditioning unit made terrible noise. Not the first time I have experienced this from a Watson Martin course. \
\
From receiving the course info to the end of the course, it was all handled very efficiently.  clear instructions and guidance for pre-work.  the trainer was very approachable, knowledgeable and interactive and definitely brought out the knowledge and comparisons within the group.  she kindly took the time to explain things thoroughly and definitely left me 100% more confident about the assignment.  sometimes with the assignments without the workshop it is a bit difficult to understand the question being asked to having the workshop is immensely useful as we found a lot of the students had the same general reservations which put us at ease once answered.  The day flew by.  I could have stayed for longer\
\
Really liked the trainers style and delivery. Think we could have had a bit more time on L & D role with some case studies to get a broader picture. But found the trainer very good and glad I have him on future modules. \
Was made to feel very prepared for my assignment and well supported by the course\
\
\
There were slides missing from the printed pack given to us. It would be nice to have fruit in the table instead of biscuits. \
Joseph was very comprehensive and professional throughout the course and in every session. He was very engaging, approachable and supportive. He made the sessions very interactive and experiential and very inclusive in his approach tailoring the course to our learning styles. I really appreciated all his support and patience. Thank you Joseph :)\
The course(s) were again very well facilitated and run well. Joseph knows his material and is very engaging allowing us to ask questions and explore different areas individually and as a group. The day was very enjoyable and a good use of time.  One area of feedback, which stands aside from the recent workshop, we discussed as a group, was how the workshops are distributed through the course/year. I've attended 4 workshops, all of which have been 'timetabled' in for me. It might be useful for delegates to have the ability to discuss their timetable with their tutor, so attendance to the workshops can be planned in more in line with the delegates personal commitments, perhaps 1 workshop every 2 months for example.  \
I had such a fun day, really interactive and I felt like I got to grips with the subject matter well. The trainer was engaging and really encouraged discussion. \
This was my first workshop experience and I had such a great time. Davina was brilliant and really helped me understand everything especially as there was so much to take in! It has made me so motivated. The group were lovely too. \
\
I found the course really good but did struggle at times to get my hands on relevant materials for some of the 'free choice' L&D modules. It'd be useful if there was a greater bank of resources available to students to use for their wider reading. \
The course itself was as I expected but I'm not convinced that the course warranted the amount it cost. Mainly because there was little interaction other than the 4 study days for some of the modules. I understand it is a long distance learning approach but again i don't feel it warranted the amount the course cost in relation to what was offered in terms of content, material and interaction/support. \
\
\
Amanda is an excellent trainer, the workshop was engaging and very enjoyable. \
Very good knowledge and personable tutor. \
\
Aletha is just superb, she's very inclusive and you learn so much just from the discussions and participation. I feel like I've come away with a much more thorough understanding of everything, as a whole. Thank you - great workshop.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
SMALL comments.   Would it be possible to make the VLE a bit easier to navigate. For example, -  different font sizes that mean that pages require a lot more scrolling than they need to.  - calendar: i'm not sure what's meant to be on there but it would be useful for it to have workshop dates/exams etc per participant otherwise i'm not sure what it's there for.  - student resources - i have a page for student resource level 7 but nothing on there.    Facilities - same as the one i was in the other day, the lights appear to be on sensors so turn off every now and again. i think this could be amended to reduce distraction. \
SMALL comments.   Would it be possible to make the VLE a bit easier to navigate. For example, -  different font sizes that mean that pages require a lot more scrolling than they need to.  - calendar: i'm not sure what's meant to be on there but it would be useful for it to have workshop dates/exams etc per participant otherwise i'm not sure what it's there for.  - student resources - i have a page for student resource level 7 but nothing on there.    Facilities - same as the one i was in the other day, the lights appear to be on sensors so turn off every now and again. i think this could be amended to reduce distraction. \
Good to finishe by 4 as concentration was starting to go.  Lots of information \
I would highly recommend the workshop. I don't think I would be able to pass the exam if I had not attended.\
\
\
Really insightful first session, very pleased with how the course is run and fully enjoyed the experience.\
The trainer wasn\'82\'c4\'f4t Aletha holborough\
Great session to set expectations for the upcoming course and exam\
Need to fix the sensored lighting in the training room\
Could have had print outs of course handbook or told us to print before course.  Trainer was lovely, very knowledgeable and kept a good pace. \
Building hard to find  Maybe useful to provide more instructions \
\
The group discussions and activities were interesting \
The VLE has brilliant content and materials, however a lot of the modules only went live midway through my course so before this time it was quite limited. \
\
I felt Joseph was an engaging facilitator who clearly knew the subject matter well. In my view, he explained the structure of the assignment well & I left feeling confident in my approach to this. I feel clearer in what is expected of me.  I found it good that we did a range of activities during the session. I thought it was a good idea for one group to work in a different room and also give us the option to work in a different space for the reflective activity. I enjoyed catching up with people I had met previously. \
\
\
A session on each module would be great! \
\
I found Watson Martin Partnership as the most flexible CIPD course provider suiting my needs. Mine was a bespoke module which was well spaced out and customised to perfectly balance work and study.  My trainer Michelle Mclaughin has sound knowledge of the subject and was always accessible during the course duration, providing advise and guidance whenever it was required. I feel I have greatly benefitted from this association with her. I am confident this course will be of practical use in my career ahead as an HR professional. \
Anegla Baron is a fantastic, knowledgeable trainer who was very constructive with her feedback, easy to communicate with and had a very quick turnover time with assignments. Even though i was allowed i think 7 meetings, i only had to meet her once and everything was then communicated by email. I'm sure if i needed another meeting, she would be happy to assist.\
I found the course useful however would have liked more challenge from the trainer and relation of the topic back to our industries.  \
useful course\
A really interactive, fun morning. Since attending the course I have implemented a lot of the skills Jill shared with us and my ability to read with pace has increased. Not only that but I am able to read at pace and absorb information. A really good course which I would highly recommend to others.\
Too much knowledge and not enough time. Overall course was great! \
Really excellent. I thought the subject was going to be a little dull, but it was delivered expertly by the excellent trainer. Melinda judged the pace perfectly, and went into just the right amount of detail on each topic. The slides were great. Examples given were very relevant, and there was opportunity for group input. I have now attended three WM workshops; this was the best, but the other two were also very good. So far I have been very impressed with Watson Martin - the organisation definitely seems to be operating at a level above other training firms. The only minor issue was that the room was not really big enough.  \
\
\
The room was a bit small and we were crammed in around the table, there was not enough room to have enough space to work with ease at the table without knocking elbows with each other.\
\
\
\
\
Marissa is incredibly knowledgeable. She is very clear and explains things properly and doesn't move on if someone doesn't quite get it. I really enjoyed today's workshop. The IBI is pretty daunting but Marissa broke it down into manageable chunks and really explained what we needed to do and what not to do, which is equally important! \
Great workshop - really engaging and interesting for my day to day job and for the future\
\
Davina was a great facilitator and had everyone engaged\
Great day! Davina was fantastic and very patient.   \
Refreshments can be better organised.\
Overall the course content and Davina was excellent.  The facilities were dissapointing. when I arrived there was no none at reception and I had to look for someone, couldn't find anyone so I just had to knock a door and hope that was the room I was in.  The Trainer had to track some biscuits for us, No Bottled water within the room, it would have been better if we had had Hot water in the room for Tea and Coffee so the facilities let the overall experience down  We should have been in a slighlty bigger room as myself and another lady had our backs to the presenatation screen due to space around the table \
Unfortunately we lost time this morning due to a fire alarm which meant, particularly in the afternoon, we had to rattle through the content in order to cover all the learning outcomes.  This was a shame because I don\'82\'c4\'f4t learn at my best when rushing! Having said that, Alether was excellent & made sure key points were covered albeit multiple slides were discarded to meet the timeframe. Alether was very knowledgeable & answered all our questions and remained calm even though time was tight. She was able to keep my engagement throughout. Considering my day started at 4am I thought I may struggle to concentrate as the workshop went on but Alether managed to maintain my focus! Unfortunately the workshop didn\'82\'c4\'f4t end on time which caused me to miss my coach home & I incurred an additional ticket cost.\
Victoria office is a lot more convenient than the city of London one \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
It wasn't clear that we were in the right place and I couldn't get in the door at the beginning of the day.  Once in, the room, etc. was fine but some idea that we were at the right venue and where the course was being held would be helpful.\
Angela was extremely friendly and knowledgable. \
\
\
The course has a lot of content to cover, but the classes and the VLE gave a good overview of what knowledge we need to focus on in order to prepare for the examination.  \
\
\
These particular rooms on Oxford Street are in an accessible location but can be very cramped! You're tripping over each other a bit and can be tricky to do group work on the flip chart sheets as the desks are very thin.\
I did not receive my joining instructions and had to call for confirmation of the details.\
\
\
\
Attending the course made me feel more confident about sitting the exam.\
Content was very basic but Linda's delivery was informative and engaging.\
\
Michelle is really good teacher and we had very successful session.  Enjoyed the whole day informative learnings and I felt this is the most imppresive workshop I have ever attended in WMP.\
\
Room wasn\'82\'c4\'f4t ideal for working space, very slim desk benches not great when you have a million books and papers to access all at once! Also tables were angled awkwardly away from the whiteboard, we had to move them.\
\
\
\
I thought Michelle was brilliant in her delivery and her attitude really made it easy for everyone to feel free to contribute and work as a group. Her depth in knowledge with the subject was really helpful and I feel we are equipped with the right tools for the exam.  Thanks Michelle!\
The majority of the modules I completed were interesting, relevant and encouraged self learning. When I met Davina or spoke to her on the phone she was very friendly, knowledgeable and a pleasure to work with. I did learn a lot from the course and I have been able to take this learning into my current role. My main issues with the entire course were two fold:   1) the length of time it took to have my work marked. On nearly every module Davina said that the normal turn around time for marking had been increased due to the volume of work. Each time I waited an additional week or two before chasing for feedback. This delayed my progress and meant I did not finish until the very last month my course was due to run until. I had intended and planned on working to a stricter time frame and completing the course earlier.  2) the VLE was utterly useless. It did not have much content for my modules (especially the earlier ones). \
The room was much bigger than last time which made it easier to study and break off into groups.  Drinks provided were fine.\
Hi , Michelle was an excellent trainer.   In terms of the room , the desks/tables were very small and did have much room in the room as there were a lot of attendees.   Overall, very enjoyable and there were great discussions. \
I don\'82\'c4\'f4t like the Oxford Street venue as much as Bury Street. The rooms are quite cramped and there is a lack of facilities. \
\
\
\
The workshop went well, I left feeling confident.\
The course allows a lot of flexibility for how and when you learn and the meetings with the trainer or mentor help provide structure on approach and provide guidance on the content and resources you should use. Together this works well to create an environment where you don't feel completely lost in terms of tackling quite a big course with lots of broad and disparate topics.\
\
The workshop clashed with the first day of the CIPD L&D conference which was unfortunate as it meant that I missed it. Perhaps res-schedule if such a clash happens again!\
Some of the questions and information asked was confusing and I had to check with my tutor on what was meant in the actual question. \
Great coach, very interactive! \
Joseph was excellent, engaging an informative. Clearly he knows his stuff.  The exercises and activities kept the day fresh.  I felt the pace was right and he allowed time for discussion.  It was a very enjoyable day and i am looking forward to the remainder of the workshops.  The venue was comfortable with good facilities.   The only slight negative was the course printed material wasn't inline with the PPT presentation.  Other than that - all very good.  Thank you. \
\
\
\
I really enjoy Joseph\'82\'c4\'f4s Workshops. He makes everything make sense and gives us a great grounding in each subject which in turn gives us the comfidence to embark upon the assignments. \
It was disappointing that the trainer had been given the wrong venue, therefore the workshop was half an hour late in starting. Course was bit rushed to fit everything into to timescales.\
The course was really interesting and picked up some good tips for where to find information.\
It may be an idea to say that the office is next to the theatre where Wicked is running.  Melinda is my advisor and it was really nice to be able to spend time with her and gain from her knowledge.    As with these courses some people speak more than other and whilst useful when an open discussion I felt some people prattled on.  Melinda was very good at bringing back the focus on the questions in  hand.\
Location easy to get to and clean.   Melinda was great. Encouraged discussion and helped with queries and problems/questions \
\
The content which I learned on the course was brilliant. However I was expecting to cover the whole module and had therefore planned my time following the course to complete the assignment. However when we were at the course we found out that only half the content was being covered then and half in May which meant we would be unable to hand in our assignments when originally planned.\
\
\
Although I was advised that the course was suitable for someone not working in the industry, I did not find this to be the case. All my submissions required evidence of understanding based of workplace examples/activities which I did not always have access to.\
\
The trainer was very knowledge on the subjects.  The course materials were good.  Its just a shame that there are only workshops in London, as I would have liked to be able to participate in them, but not possible living in Scotland!\
\
During my course, I had three different advisers, which created a bit of confusion because each had different approaches. I understand that people are free to move on however, I felt that the change of advisers every few months was not particularly helpful.\
The lecturer was fantastic, enthusiastic and clearly knows the topic very well.  Venue was great and in a great location.\
The structure of the course was very useful. Being able to work through the assessment templates and discuss them with the trainer and other learners has made me much more confident to complete the module. \
\
I really enjoyed the programme. It has helped me to gain understanding of the subject and develop my skills. \
I felt very pleased to have Melinda as my advisor for this course, she was very knowledgeable and help for both the exams and coursework.  Some modules provided more information than others, I always found the documents on the VLE very useful but sometimes there was a heavy reliance on a textbook.\
My Trainer Louise Hill was fantastic she supported me throughout, happy to ask questions I had and also went through in great details assignment specifications and suggested areas of study. I haven't studied for over 20 years so this was quite a challenge for me, but with her help and course content I am now CIPD qualified and have increased my knowledge base and working methods no end - thank you \
Trainer (Joseph) was brill - the workshops were a highlight. I really enjoyed meeting the other people in my group and felt we worked well together. I enjoyed the time away from the office; it was fun, and stepping back to evaluate what's going on at work was very helpful.  My advisor (Alisoun) was fantastic. She gave me clear guidance and expectations, and was extremely helpful and flexible. I think I was lucky to get her.\
\
\
\
Great workshop, trainer went through everything very clearly.\
Encourage students to take a laptop as having the workshop slides downloaded was useful as I could make notes onto the presentation directly. \
\
\
I had an extremely pleasant surprise with the workshop today. The key concepts were clearly explained, were supported by examples and it really helped in clarifying all of our questions regarding various situations we had been involved in as practicioners. Melinda did an amazing job in explaining not just the subject of employment law, but even more importantly she clarified what's required in terms of writing the assessment and provided great guidance. \
\
\
Very good workshop. Angela has a wide range of knowledge and I find the examples of her past experiences very useful. I also liked going through the assignment and brainstorming approaches to answering the questions, it made me feel a lot more prepared and confident in completing the assignment.\
The entire process is very structured and I was well informed on the content of the course. The advisers/trainers were very helpful and keen to ensure I was enrolled on a course that was suitable for me. 10/10 service.\
Very useful content and great delivery.  Melinda is inspiring\
Very well structured workshop, clear content and well presented!\
\
\
Course content & webinars were great Had to chase to get modules added to VLE each month and could not start assignments until this was done Also if I submitted my work on/before the draft deadline would take a long time to get this back sometimes the working day before the final submission or even after this date when I would be working on the next modules work too. \
\
\
\
I would 100% recommend this course to anyone who wishes to pursue a career within HR. The advisers that I had: Davina Jenkins & Sarah Nee-Davies were very helpful and always on hand to provide support whenever I needed. I found the administration team to be extremely helpful and always easy to communicate with during various points of my course. The content of the CIPD Level 3 HR Certificate is up to date with latest HR practice and gives a very good insight into how a HR professional operates within entry-level HR roles such as: HR Administrator, HR Assistant and even opens up areas of the HR Advisory role. The course was structured around my needs and circumstances and everyone involved was very accomodating.   I would definitely like to pursue the CIPD Level 5 qualification at some point :)! \
Really enjoyed the course, Linda was a great teacher and Alisoun was a great mentor.  The course could have been slightly more interactive when it came to materials.\
\
My consultant Louise Hill was absolutely brilliant.  very knowledgeable and easy to talk to.  I felt that I could contact her at anytime to discuss questions/queries/issues that I had.  I only wish that had been assigned to me at the start of the qualification and not as my replacement consultant when the previous one left the company.\
\
The biggest positive for this course was that it gave me the independence to learn and complete the course work at my own pace.   My course advisor was excellent, always available for any questions and provided quick turnaround on my submissions with very clear, constructive feedback.   I experienced some issues in my time on the course with the portal. I could not upload my coursework onto the portal for example and some of the modules had broken links for support materials.   \
\
\
Excellent\
\
\
I felt that this course gave a really good foundation for HR management. I am already in this role in a small company, and it taught me what I need to know. It was a good mix of theory, practice, practical application, current best practice and legal implications.   I was fortunate to be in a small group, and I think that contributed enormously to my enjoyment of the course. We got on really well, and it was fascinating to hear about the other people's experience of HR in their context. The module days were a highlight.   The teaching/training materials were less inspiring. Although the textbook was far more engaging that I expected given the density of the print, the online lessons were unremittingly tedious. Some were lifted, without any editing, straight from literature available online. There was scope for interaction and engagement which was almost completely wasted. There was the odd 'pairing exercise' or video link but mostly it was just a case of ploughing through hundreds of slides of text. The way it was arranged meant you couldn't tell how long any lesson was going to be. The system was clunky and slow, the links were often out of date, and you couldn't copy and paste from the slides into your own notes. I expected better.   Our facilitator was friendly, helpful and well informed. She was very responsive to email questions, and engaging on the module days. I did feel there was scope for more explanation and guidance at the start, when everyone struggled to know what to do in the first assignment, including how to access their marks and feedback. The facilitators run several courses simultaneously, and these are at different stages so I guess it's hard to remember who knows what, but our group certainly felt rather in the dark at the start. Things improved greatly as the course progressed and we became one of the 'old hands'.   Communication following the course was very disappointing ie almost non-existent. When we were passed by DPG, we heard nothing at all for 3 months - we were expecting at least fanfares and trumpets! I realise there are various validation processes but it was certainly a let down not to even be told the expected timelines involved.   Overall, I don't know how this provider compares to other course providers, but I would recommend only with reservation. There are some easy wins for improvements which DPG have not taken, and it did rather leave the feeling that once they have your money and you're on the course, they are less interested in the quality of what is delivered. However, I did learn what I needed to learn, and I will receive the Level 5 Diploma (eventually) and the facilities for the module days were excellent - especially the lunches and that's what really matters.\
A lot of the links on the learning pathways did not work or did not take you to the correct location - it would take some time to find the correct articles etc  There was some content on the pathway that was out of date and did not assist with the course i.e. pension information was inaccurate\
\
Dpg needs to address their computer systems. Delegates and I had issues with not all the slide content viewable. Despite completing each module online the system was showing some modules as incomplete. \
Enjoyed the course and Lynne was a great facilitator.\
I found the blended aspect of the course very useful as I was able to study in my own time, but also found the workshop days very enjoyable as I was able to meet with other HR Professionals and share our experience and passion for Human Resources. \
\
The location was nice, the course book was interesting and nice we get to keep. Sue wade was a great facilitator and very engaging  The initial perks of signing up though weren\'82\'c4\'f4t delivered though. I received neither amazon vouchers now iPad despite many emails Sean Ryan \
The facilitator was great and was lucky to be in a great group.  I found the content online was out of date. Some links didn't work. It also lacked inspiration. More interactive tools needed.  The portal was not easy to navigate, nor were there sufficient instructions on how to use this. Particularly at the start of the course when students are new and attempting to submit coursework.  On completion of the course there has been no communication till an email dated 09/02/18 to say we'd been successful. We finished in November 2017! Felt a little like an anti-climax after such an intense 9 months as well as demonstrating a lack of customer service that overall left one with a more negative feeling than maybe there would have been prior.\
\
\
I found the workshops covered topics at a very basic level and did not set the tone for the standard expected for assignments that were submitted. More focus should be given to providing students with examples and guidelines of the expectations and focus on critical analysis skills. Due to the pace of the workshops the content could have been condensed into one day rather than two.  I found the feedback on assignments to be very positive, even though marks were not reflective and in most part very average. During the process I concentrated on improving marks through constructively reflecting on feedback but continued to achieve the same marks.  In year 1 we were told to complete all the workbooks to support and prove learning, which I completed in good time. During the 2nd years study we were told to upload them blank, having put many hours into the workbooks I found this very frustrating. I believe if there was a requirement for workbooks to be completed and uploaded at prescribed deadlines, the number of student falling behind and extending their studies would be reduced.  \
great team, great facilitator. Sue was very helpful through the course. I would have appreciated a bit more materials along the course but overall I enjoyed the course and would recommend it any day!\
Thank you very much to Debbie for all of her support.\
\
\
Cannot fault the content, learning, facilitator or service.\
Brilliant course! Have learnt a lot that I now hope to put in practice and made some lasting friends!\
\
The course has been a great experience from start to finish - hard work but worth it! Sue made the course interesting and was highly engaging. I have given the course content and materials 4 stars as some of the content was out of date (e.g. spoke of the coalition's government's plans etc) and at times the links in the Learning Pathway did not work and I ended up having to Google what I needed - minor issues though. I also think the first assignment should be due after the group has met for the first time - there was a lot of confusion from participants on how to start/do it! Finally, there were times in the programme where we were told to submit an assignment (alongside another one) but these hadn't  been marked yet so we all had a general panic about this - Sue was great at reassuring us though. In all, a good experience. \
\
Good course, comprehensive and well organised.\
\
It's difficult to comment on booking and facilities as we were booked on as a group.\
Overall there were many issues with the running of this course. One of issues included the lack of information at the induction on how the course would look like, the support available and what is required for the essays. There wasn't much support available and when there were issues it took a long time to try and get a response from DPG or the Facilitator. The planning of the course was poor as we had to take our exams in the first year of the course when we hadn't covered all of the modules and there was overlap with the deadlines. \
\
\
At the start of the programme it was hard to be completing assessments without yet having a workshop and getting to know your facilitator.   Jo was amazing and unbelievably helpful... she was always available to help and built my confidence considerably. I could tell that she was a credible HR/L&D professional. \
Administrator support from Vicky excellent.  I attended a couple of sessions led by Jo in Birmingham - she really provides the standard of tutelage I'd expect. She has excellent subject knowledge, she's an HR practitioner and is able to discuss and debate a topic and give some great examples and signposting. I'd recommend the course if she were running it. \
Fantastic course with a variety of learning methods. I had a great group as well and it was useful being around like-minded people who could share stories and frustrations relating to L&D\
\
\
\
\
I found the materials explaining the overall structure of the course quite confusing and intimidating. Once we had the briefing in a webinar, it all made sense. I feel that as the first exposure to the course, it should be made simpler to understand to set a nicer tone rather than one of being completely overwhelmed.  Overall, the course provided a good overview of HR and I was able to apply a lot of the learning to my organisation. It helped me gain the confidence to challenge Senior Management as well as gave me the tools to generate strategic ideas to help develop the business. In doing so, I was promoted from an Operations Manager to Operations Director!\
Very well organised, only issue was the deadlines were very close.  One after another and for some I only had more or less two weeks to complete the next assignment and with working full time its quite hard and stressful.\
\
i enjoyed this course and pleased that i have passed. I will be able to take what i have learnt into the classroom as a trainer but also as part of looking at the wider needs of the organisation for all staff training; and how my role fits in with this.  I would recommend this course to others as a great stepping stone into the world of L&D. \
\
Pre-Course: no info readily available as to how people who had already completed the course had found it. Only pointed to reviews of the initial enquiry process, where all the comments were from people who were just starting the course, which was no use to me.  There was also no real selection criteria when I applied. I was considering applying directly with the CIPD and they took me through a very thorough assessment as to whether the level 5 was appropriate given my background and experience. The only reason I didn't go directly with CIPD was that they were much more expensive. With DPG there was no advice given, my application was screened by an administrator rather than a tutor and I got the sense that anyone who applied was accepted.  Really don't like the '100% pass guarantee' that is given. In my mind it makes it sound like a trained monkey could pass and devalues the perceived quality of the qualification. This was really off-putting for me, rather than an incentive.  Admin/efficiency/communication at sign-up time was very good.  Course venue facilities in Manchester were excellent, couldn't fault them.    \
I found the course very informative and interesting. I would recommend DPG to anyone considering a similar course.\
Organisation of the course is excellent and informative from start to finish, the materials well constructed and relevant.  I particularly liked the option to download the lessons to be able to print them and the links through to documents, studies, research and case law applicable to the each lesson.  The workshops afforded the opportunity to meet others on the course, work through scenarios together, share ideas and gain further learning from Sue, our excellent Facilitator and discuss any issues we were having with the assignments or coursework.  For me the venue in central London was a reasonable distance and easy to get to by train and its facilities were very good, especially the lunch!\
\
\
The course was very well run and Ian was a great tutor. The content covered was perfect and very relevant to HR in the current climate. The learning requirements were covered very well and fully explained in the criteria.  The venue was very good and was a nice learning environment.  I would recommend this to colleagues and would consider doing further courses in the future. \
\
\
Great course and great facilitator who provided support whenever I needed it. The only thing that could have been better is a face to face introductory session which would have helped the first workshop to run more effectively.  \
CIPD Level 5 in HR Management was the right course for me.  However, I was not impressed with DPG.  The website was slow and not user-friendly.  The room we used was too small for the number of people.  There were often broken links in the online course and there was no easy way to download all documents needed for the course.  The facilitator was ok, but he had the same course the day before and I think he was probably a bit bored by the time he was doing our course.  He had knowledge but he wandered around topics rather than being clear and concise.  I didn't find the assessor to be consistent wither with my different submissions or between different people on the course.  It was a long time since many of us had been in the world of academia and often the things we got wrong were real world versus academic world.  I we would have benefited from a session at the start where what is expected is explained e.g. when we ask for a presentation we don't mean a presentation like you would do in the real world, we mean an essay on slides, an appropriate amount of referencing is this, here's a good example of a reflective statement etc.\
Great course, love the flexible learning approach and thought the Bristol sessions were great. Great venue and Debbie facilitator was helpful, welcoming and kept the session interesting.  Area's of improvement could include, another text book provided and a pre-course welcome pack sent out. In the future I would be interested in future courses with DPG.\
\
The course was well presented and run with good interaction between Peter and the candidates. There was appropriate time between sessions to study and submit work and the online portal worked really well. I definitely improved my knowledge in each of the areas studied.\
The most valuable aspect of this course is spending quality time with a highly experienced  facilitator and sharing knowledge and experiences with people from various different places and industries.\
A fantastic course, learnt so much from the Workshops and had great support from Sue our facilitator \
\
I felt that the course was very well ran and fitted around my schedule, although my only suggestion would be around the start of the course. I felt (as i believe did many) that the first module should have been a workshop, as this would set expectations and get everyone on the same page from the beginning,  I also believe there should be less presentations although from what i gather, these will be reduced in the next lot of CIPD courses.  I would also like to add that Sue West was a great tutor, as she was very friendly and accomodating and made everyone feel at ease.\
Very well administrated and access given as needed.\
\
\
\
\
I found the flipped classroom approach really useful, I got a huge sense of achievement in designing my 40 minute session in the two days. The mixture of learning methods and interaction with Zoe and the rest of the group meant that I came away feeling very confident about how to approach a piece of design in my role. I have not previously done any design so this was a big win for me. The course is pitched at an adult level with fun elements that actually add value rather than being childish which I have found to happen at other courses (not DPG). I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this course to my colleagues and hopefully one of them will be attending soon.\
I really enjoyed the course.  Prior to the attending, I thought I knew aspects of facilitation. Mi have come away with some fantastic new practices which I am already deploying in my session.\
\
Anthony is fantastic and a true asset to helping me really cement my knowledge. The context he uses really brings the course to life. \
Fantastic course . The course really helps us to embed what we learnt in the text book. Anthony was fantastic getting everyone involved and his recaps were great. Lots of questions through the 4 days to check our understanding of topics. The only thing that I feel needs more work is the mock exam. It was not really like a mock at all. The questions need to be more like the questions in the exam. Really good course .Do not think I would have been able to pass without it .\
It was a good course but the practise questions are not like the exam questions\
Darren is an outstanding tutor and even though we were moved from our original training room was very understanding and was happy to adapt to the new room we were provided with.  The feedback from the candidates was Darren made them fully understand the chapters and without this revision course they wouldn't feel confident in taking their exams. I would highly recommend Darren to deliver any further revision days that we have here at Canada Life \
Thoroughly enjoyed the course - and working through the questions helped put the theory into practice. Would have liked to get a few extra questions to practice at home to consolidate knowledge.\
The course itself and the learning materials are very good and aid the intense learning very well. The hand outs, exercises and discussions are particularly useful. The tutor also took the time to ensure we had additional hand outs and exercises which was most appreciated and helpful. However, the lower mark for the tutor reflects - occasions when irrelevant discussions over run meaning that some people questions were cut off - Despite an attempt to bring some humour and light heartedness to the room, some jokes were very awkward and then laboured on despite no reaction. \
\
Some of the questions were poorly written (double negatives etc). Felt like it was trying to catch you out.   Tutor made some in appropriate comments which made us all fell slightly uncomfortable but he knew the content well and was very knowledgeable. \
Really informative, the way we went over the practice questions was really useful and helped to identify areas where I was struggling.  So helpful for the exam which I passed.  I have already recommended this course to many colleagues.  \
\
Sue was very good and she clearly knows her stuff.  However, I felt that there were some areas that were overlooked.  Some areas were not covered at all, and seeing as we only had 1 day, we were told that we should have had 2 days to go through everything.  I felt that the structure could have been better, as we seemed to move onto a different topic quite quickly, which, I understand it necessary when you only have a day to get everything done.  There seemed to be some difference of opinion on the facts of certain subjects which left me quite confused.  I would have preferred to go through more examples with Sue and instead of trying to answer questions without learning the content, it would have been good to go through the questions first and then try and answer them.  Overall, the day was fine, but I didn't leave feeling like I had learnt anything new - I left feeling slightly worried and unsure of what to revise / study.  Perhaps more communication and structure towards the exam itself would have been useful.\
\
Brilliant resource and thought it was tremendously beneficial\
Very complex subject matter that the tutor was able to explain and could answer all questions from participants. \
Course gave a fantastic oversight into Contractors Insurance.  I found Neil to be incredibly engaging and informative.  He was able to clearly convey a class of business that can be quite 'heavy' with contract terminology and keep us engaged for the full day.  \
\
Nice relaxed atmosphere but great content \
\
\
Another good course with Bridget, who was excellent at explaining the covers, checking our understanding.  Useful exercises, getting us to summarise the key covers.  \
The course was really informative.  Our course instructor Bridget Smith was excellent, Bridget was very good at explaining how the wider insurance industry works and how my company NFU Mutual compares in practices.  Very enjoyable course, gained a lot from it.\
\
Great course, and great tutor.  She really brings the subject alive. Our group is very diverse and of very different experience/knowledge levels.  She manages to pitch it so that it is beneficial to all, giving extra support and confidence to those who need it.  She patiently handles a lot of interruptions during the course, keeping the disruption to others to a minimum.\
He was so knowledgeable and went at a good pace so all the information could be taken in. Really enjoyed this course \
Bridget was very engaging and helpful. \
The course was very good and very informative but it was a lot if information to take in during one day if you haven't read the book in full yet.   I think I would have got more out of the course if I had read the course material before attending. \
\
I thought the tutor was excellent and I was really impressed by his knowledge - a few more breaks would have been appreciated though.\
\
Great way of learning about Equity Release and the key elements of it. Preferably having more and a variety of exam questions would be ideal.\
I attended the course with the knowledge that I had booked my ER1 exam for today. What I learnt on the course was highly valuable and definitely helped me pass the exam today. I am really grateful to have been given the opportunity to attend and feel it made a huge difference to my learning so thank you very much\
Maybe next time if the person supposed to be presenting is ill. Re-schedule rather than use a substitute that may not be as prepared\
I felt Paul was a very engaging tutor and the content was appropriate to already trained mortgage advisers and brought attention to the topics that I do  not use on a day to day basis.\
I came to the course having purchased the materials but not yet having chance to have started studying.  However I am already confident to sit the exam just needing to put some time up improving knowledge on each product. I must give thanks to Georgia as the caterers had not sent my vegan lunch and being local to the area I was prepared to nip out to Morrisons or Boots and grab some however she had something already waiting for me at lunch time. Big thanks to Georgia for this.\
It would be good to cover products such as Optional Payment Lifetime Mortgage and Income Lifetime Mortgage. The trainer was excellent and maintained energy levels really well.\
fantastic day - Paul Archer was very knowledgeable and helpful. course was at a good pace and easy to follow\
\
Well planned, thought provoking and presented course, with the right amount of audience participation.\
\
\
The tutor was very knowledgable  around the material, I really struggled keeping up with the delivery. I believe this is due to using a colleges slide deck rather than his own prepared one. At times the course was a little fragmented with jumping around different sections and elements \
As the original tutor was unable to attend due to sickness, the course felt very disjointed and cobbled together as the tutor was having to work through slides which were not his. The majority of slides were skipped and were not explained fully.  The day mainly consisted of us being given activities to complete before being taught the theory. This did not create a worthwhile learning experience as it felt more like self-learning rather than being taught by the tutor.  One of the activities involved reviewing a policy wording but some of the wordings provided were years out of date which rendered the task irrelevant. The group were given two different wordings and asked to discuss with your partner but as one wording was years out of date, this led to confusion and most of the time spent was discussing why we had two conflicting wordings rather than gaining any knowledge out of this activity. I am not a fan of reviewing policy wordings as part of a learning experience, it seems a bit of a cop out and as policy wordings can vary significantly I don't feel that you can gain much useful knowledge from this activity.  The course content seemed to jump around a lot, and it didn't feel like we finished a topic before moving on to the next.  I have a few large contractor clients and was looking forward to developing my knowledge in this area but the course did not fulfil this. Overall a very disappointing experience. \
\
I didn't feel I learnt very much and too much time was spent on exercises which didn't relate to the training topic - an hour's course would have been more appropriate\
Very knowledgeable guy, really knows his content - don't know if he could read the room especially when energy levels were dipping \
Didn't flow very well from one section to the next - could be because the tutor was using someone else's presentation \
More questions throughout the day would be useful to test knowledge!  Sometimes the information given was too basic\
Good course and enjoyable.  Would like to drill further into some subject matters but not able to in the time available so would like more training on specific products, ie OCIP\
Neil Park is a brilliant tutor and always provides very comprehensive course content and notes that are hugely useful.  He always judges the audience experience level very well and adapts to suit.  He also make it very interactive and more interesting.\
\
\
\
\
Very informative, useful and interactive course. Would definitely recommend\
very good and informative covered the main topics very clearly \
Maurita was excellent, she had in-depth knowledge and can answer strange questions/scenarios we asked which applied better to our client base. She was concise with what we needed to know and can give good advice with how to prepare for the exam and was also kind enough to give us her email address in case we had questions as we worked through the textbook. Definitely recommend.\
Interesting, great content, good level of complexity and Nigel was an engaging and knowledgeable host. I would highly recommend to colleagues. \
\
I found Neil's course excellent, very relevant and useful.  All his courses for the CII that I've attended are very informative and well delivered\
\
Great course. Would highly recommend. The only negative I have is the same as I generally would have with the CII courses in that they are less Irish law focused and more UK focused. \
\
\
So impressed, a great use of time.  A very competent and efficient trainer.  She assessed the needs of the group and is able to give everyone the tuition they need.  \
\
Neil had varied exercises throughout the day which were clear, strategic and very engaging. I found the course extremely useful and eye opening, particularly where policies overlap where you tend to forget. I personally hadn't come across a POSI policy or Product Contamination so receiving a brief outline of this cover was interesting. Many thanks!\
Bridget was really friendly but not too 'in your face'.  Everyone on the course knew what we'd be doing over the 3 sessions and it was run well and with great timings.   I liked that the course was lead around the book but Bridget managed to get some interactive elements in which were nice for the group to join in without pushing comfort zones.  Bridget was happy to spend lunch to explain certain things in more details which allowed members of the group to expand knowledge which was not relevant to the course and didn't take time from the whole groups learning!  I really feel Bridget went above and beyond with this course.\
\
\
Hi. The content and delivery were excellent and have already recommended it to me Client Executive Colleagues as a valuable and worthwhile course.\
\
The course itself was very basic with nothing new learnt for an 8 hour course. Had hoped that Dovetailing liabilities would cover dovetailing the primary to the excess and not identifying the type of liability present in basic examples. There was no mention of excess liabilities.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Great course, really gets you thinking. The tutor did mention FINPro a fair bit\
\
\
\
I think steve is a brilliant tutor for the LM1 and LM2 course\
I found the tutor engaging and knowledgeable and put the content into easily understandable sections. Well done!\
\
The trainer provided some concise learning techniques and covered all areas clearly. Very usefull refresher as long time since J05 and AF3. \
I found the AF7 revision day to be very useful in terms of the content covered, practice questions and exam technique. \
\
Very knowledgeable and engaging tutor\
Excellent course - really understandable for such a 'dry' complex syllabus. Delivery was great and extremely helpful hand-outs and key topics covered\
Very through and kept the course a good pace\
The course made several areas a lot clearer. I have a much better understanding which will help in my further study upto the exam in April. \
Steve is an extremely knowledgeable tutor with a great enthusiasm for the course. This course was incredibly useful and I left with a much broader and deeper understanding. I would highly recommend Steve as a CII tutor.\
Information was well presented and plenty of handouts to aid in revision, as well as mock tests. \
Course helped me to understand a few chapters that I hadn't come across before in insurance. Steve is a great trainer, very friendly and makes sure that he explains things fully. \
Tutor was very good and able to explain complex topics in an easy to understand manner. Focus was on they key topic areas of concern, perhaps if the session was a 30 mins/an hour longer there would be more time to digest the topics covered. But overall everything was covered in adequate detail. Very good revision materials and practice questions given.\
\
Anthony's style is very appealing. Many thanks.\
The trainer had an extremly wide range of knowledge, but if he was asked a question sometimes he would divert away from the answer. However, he would come back to the main point quickly enough.\
\
Really good course and good to understand what the exam may look like\
\
Paul was a good presenter and used a variety of methods to get the info across.  Gave me additional insight into what to expect at the exam and how to approach it. Feel more confident since the course.\
Fantastic! I feel much more confident about the exam. The course was pitched at the right level and I would definitely recommend it. Thank you!\
A really interesting session.  The room was full of varying degrees of knowledge on the subject and the trainer was able to structure the day so everyone was able to follow.\
I found the course to be really useful and I now understand some of the things I was struggling with much more clearly.\
I felt that the content was delivered in an effective way. The pace was in tune with the audience.  Tutor explained the material in a clear and concise way.\
Superb tutor, made the subject easier to understand.  Great course overall \
Very good set at the right level of all. Tony was very knowledgable and helpful. \
Any chance of putting all the bits of paper in a binder?\
Very good thanks. Gave me a lot of confidence in my prep for AF7 exam.\
This is probably the best exam course I have attended. The tutor was excellent and pitched it at just the right level for me, I got a lot from the day.\
An excellent course and presenter. This will definitely help with my AF7 exam in April. The presenter explained complex areas in simple terms and provided many useful pointers to assist with our study. I am looking forward to the second workshop in March and would recommend this course to anyone sitting the AF7 exam. \
Tutor was great, very knowledgeable and very personable.  \
\
Might be nice to make covering some of the dryer topics a little more interactive \
\
An enjoyable course that was well presented and made what could have been a dry subject interesting. \
\
\
Excellent trainer who bought an intrinsically dull subject to life. In addition made the course and material relevant to the Internal Audit function and had a good balance between QA sessions, flipchart sessions and more classic classroom type teaching. Also very helpful and knowledgeable on the subject matter. Would absolutely recommend to others.\
Be even better if there was a summary on all chapters.\
Sue is a fantastic tutor, she really understands how to help students digest material that can otherwise be hard to understand from the textbook. \
Darren made the information very easy to understand\
Steve made the topic very easy to digest.  He forced attendees to think about how IDD was going to impact AXA. I also really appreciated they way he forced himself to think from an auditors perspective.  This made it much easier to follow the topic as I was able to relate it more to my role and I could see a real benefit.  I was much more attentive throughout as a result.\
Some of the material was too small to read - if there is a soft copy available that would be great.\
The course was very well developed to focus on IDD internal auditing rather than just IDD. Steve had a great approach and fantastic knowledge about the subject. Great session. \
This gave a brilliant overview of the IDD rules - but without just repeating the rules!  The session was engaging and a lot of debate and participation was encouraged so that the IDD rules could be considered against our business which was incredibly useful.\
High recommended course. Steve made a potentially dry subject interesting. He clearly understood the needs of the audience, used clear examples and varied the pace of the day according to the understanding of those involved. \
Maybe the course should be over two days or a day and a half, so all content is covered.\
Found the course very useful and helped me to understand things more than if I was reading from the book. Found that the trainer made the course very interesting and gave examples to help understand things more.\
Darren was really insightful and was able to put the subjects in to context based on his passed experiences.   I found it really useful and helped me a lot with the syllabus.   \
the course was extremely helpful and has helped me gain confidence in studying for my exam \
\
Darren, our tutor, was very engaging. He provided not only relevant paperwork to aid with the exam, he explained chapters in the book in a more understandable way, by using scenarios from his career and life. Was brilliant and well worth attending.\
The tutor Darren Slater was excellent and I found the course very beneficial \
\
I found the training really useful and interesting and the trainer allowed us to ask us those questions that have building up over the past few months about how things work in the insurance industry.  Disappointing that we weren't able to go to Lloyds building as part of the training (we were told this would be happening at 11:30 but it was actually scheduled for 11:15 so timings were mixed up). This will now have to be rescheduled which is more time in the diary. Also might be useful to have times accompanying the agenda so we know roughly how long each section will take and whether there will be a refreshment break, etc.\
\
\
The course was too long for the content. Too many slides. Insufficient content on cyber fraud risks and prevention.\
\
\
Really useful course, gave greater understanding as to how to prepare for the exam, coursework technique and gave a good insight into caselaw and how to use the caselaw within the module. Rod was very knowledgeable and explained thing extremely well. Could have been longer or spread over two days as its a big module.\
Rod is very knowledgeable & very interactive with his presentation. We had to do this via conference call but that did not stop Rob from delivering a great presentation. Rod also provided us with lots of examples outside the Mo5 book to show the principles of law. A very great teacher that kept the course interactive.  \
Both speakers (David and Ed) were great! Lot of war stories and insights into the market. Content was very well received. Just on the material side is room for improvement. Slides sometimes did not reflect or did not contain scope that was discussed (or then just very very high level).\
The tutor provided interesting insights into the insurance market. However, he kept referring to Tokio Marine Kiln from a Lloyd's perspective and not to Tokio Marine HCC. Also his slides had information on the Tokio Marine Kiln syndicates set-up and nothing on Tokio Marine HCC, so were not relevant to our part of the organisation.\
Interesting course with a lot of information to digest. Not quite what I had in mind as I would have liked a more detailed deep dive in to the roles of the QA team and specific responsibilities around Insurance, however the request was for a high level session, which is what was delivered.  Thanks\
\
Tutor was very approachable and the training session was well build and interesting.\
\
I think it was really instructive not just for our job but for our general culture as well. I have learnt a lot about the British and European financial framework.\
\
\
Would have been better if it was a bit more interactive.\
\
Just the right level for an overview.\
I think the training covered our primary goal to raise the team awareness about compliance. I was surprised that the course unfolded in a different sequence that the agenda delivered to us. It would have been beneficial that the trainer shares less personal examples but helps the audience to share business situations to trigger interactive discussions. For example start every section by asking if someone knows what it's about and what situations they faced.\
Trainer had a fantastic level of knowledge, would recommend this to many people within FCIM to hep create an understanding of Solvency II as this is something lacking in the business.\
Tutor did the best he could in the one day given. He did say he normally does the course over 3 or 5 days which would have been much better!\
I found it a little fast paced at time, having not as much knowledge as others in the room.\
I have entered a 5 for booking however it was our L&D team that booked and handled all aspects of the course :)  John was a great trainer, he was lively (hard when the subject is Solvency II) and I really appreciated the time he took to personalise the session, relating things back to our company which for me, helps solidify learning. \
\
Although the trainer clearly knew his subject matter, he did explain to us that he didnt even know how he was supposed to deliver this training only in a one day session. Most of the day he pretty much just read from the book and remarked several times 'we should just read the chapter as it wasnt rocket science'. There was very very little interaction between us and the trainer at all throughout the entire session. By the second part of the course in the afternoon i know i myself was finding it very hard to continue to just listen and didnt feel alot of it really made too much sense.  \
5 days of training into one day according to the trainer and a lot to take in for one day\
Top class! \
Richard was lovely and very knowledgeable.  Course information was not available on the first day as lost in the post but we did receive the presentation material on day 2.\
The instructor and material really helped to clear up confusion around certain topics and make distinctions between similar aspects. Discussions during te course also brought out real life examples which helped to provide context to the material.\
\
This course was a rare opportunity to understand the origins and processes of what we do and why. Worked in insurance before for years without thinking about it, nice to catch up with the lingo also. I love it, thank you. \
\
\
For a person new to the Insurance industry i found the course extremely useful.\
\
\
Rob was a great instructor. Course content wasn't as impressive.\
I found the course really interesting, Rob is a natural teacher, but also great at provoking further thoughts. \
Good tutor but he could have been more aware of the regulation led restrictions we have in letters. Workbook was photocopied poorly so it was very small and not much room to write notes.  Time went quickly.\
The general information provided added value to my letter writing.  My main feedback is the tutor didn't have a grasp of regulated Financial Advice and the reason the letters are formatted the way they are.  Putting the 'action points' in the introduction would lead to clients not reading the rest of the advice letter.   A tutor with a Financial Planning background or even better a paraplanner would've been more beneficial.  \
Overall fun day and some good input and tips from Robert. It's hard when the trainer isn't completely familiar with the industry and the regulatory constraints, but he was still able to offer some help.\
Great course, very informative and great cover-all introduction to the business for new joiners.\
\
\
\
I thought the course was excellent and Anthony's delivery was first class and well presented.\
The amount of information that Anthony managed to get across to us in such an understandable way was unbelievable. Fantastic teaching style and managed to keep me completely engaged throughout.\
Tracey was incredibly helpful and very clear with her explanations. Extensive materials provided which is a great help for further revision.\
we organised a one-day workshop but feel I could have done with 2 days. nothing against Tracey's training, she was excellent and used the time to impart a great deal of knowledge and technique on us - makes it feel like the exam is not half as daunting, and very achieveable. \
I found the course very relevant and tutor very knowledgable, I felt that any question I had could be answered which was very reassuring . It was excellent to attend the week before so that I can concentrate my study now.  Thank you \
I found the course very relevant and tutor very knowledgable, I felt that any question I had could be answered which was very reassuring . It was excellent to attend the week before so that I can concentrate my study now.  Thank you \
I organised the 2 day course as a manager at SJP for 13 partners who attended. I received feedback from 10 of those and the feedback was very positive. the structure pace and delivery of the course was excellent and the partners feel prepared and confident to tackle the upcoming exam in April. We would want to use CII again for this kind of workshop and would seek out Anthony O'Neil if available.  Many Thanks \
\
Excellent presentation. Highly articulate and knowledgeable with an underpin of interesting examples. I would certainly recommend to anyone who is studying towards FS examinations.\
\
Think what I took away is that I don't need to drill down into tech aspects too much, there are things to learn and memorise but overall I feel more comfortable going into the exam.\
\
Useful initial training on the industry - tour round Lloyd's was the highlight!\
\
I was new to reinsurance so I was glad that Ingrid provided the very basics along with lots of explanations and examples. \
\
\
\
I thought it was a very good/relevant course. Glad I had this opportunity. Thoroughly enjoyed the Lloyd's building tour!\
Great the course some clarify to the materials \
Loved the tour\
Very good. Nicely challenging. Very good trainer.\
Really informative but so much to cover!  This is really a 2 day course for this module but Steve did really well to cover the content for us in the allocated time.   I liked Steve and his approach, this could have been a very dry subject but he kept good pace with humour and excellent examples to bring to life the topic and areas we needed to cover. Thank you CII and Steve.\
Excellent course and excellent materials / tutor.   I definitely feel like I understand more and how to shape my study.  Wish we had booked it sooner\
\
Steve was great, very knowledgeable and puts content in to real life scenarios to help embed the understanding.\
Good course!  Next time I'd like to receive more cases/examples on the business market rather then the retail market as I work in the business market.  And I prefer it to be more interactive with cases you have to solve yourself for example.  Thank you!\
Rod was a great tutor, very helpful and willing to shape the course around our needs on the day. In the future it might be helpful to have a slightly longer course over 2-3 days perhaps to fully cover the content of the course as the material is quite extensive.\
\
I did feel that i learnt more about the subject matter but probably more from the paperwork than from the trainer. I think the course could have been better completed in half a day. \
\
Very comprehensive course and an engaging tutor, however, at times it seemed like an information-overload on the slides. \
Overall a very good, informative tutor who was enthusiastic and enjoyed teaching the topic.\
\
Great tutor, learnt a lot in a short space of time!\
Was good.  Room a bit dreary.  Content very easy but good ground covered - not really sure what this exam is testing that wasn't tested at diploma level\
\
\
Neil was a great tutor and explained everything in a way that was easy to understand, by giving claims examples and providing a Policy Wording to see if situations were covered.\
Neil was really good, he had a huge amount of knowledge and managed to make some challenging material really engaging. What I found most useful was looking at claims scenarios and looking to see if the wording would respond. It gave a more real world application rather than just comparing the covers offered. Would definitely recommend the course (and have been). \
\
\
Sue was brilliant, super friendly and made the course fun and easy to take in!\
Very informative, If there is something sue does not know then it is not worth knowing. Her knowledge on the industry is remarkable. She is an asset to the CII and if I get a similar course in the future I hope she leads it.\
Scope and objectives were met well with the approach of the session. Good balance of interaction and reflection which worked well of most in the group.  Style encouraged people to think for themselves which is a core aim.\
\
Found the course lay out easy to understand and supported with good materials \
\
Would be good to receive a copy of the correct answers to the exercises we did in the workshop\
Would be good to be supplied with the correct answers to the exercises afterwards as I didn't hear some of the answers\
\
Very interactive, I just feel our current offering is so small it was hard to discuss potential PI risks as we are covering trades like electricians \
Exercises were really useful and the trainer was very knowledgeable and approachable. Really enjoyable session thankyou\
Too broad and not specific enough on TVH product.\
Well tailored to meet the specific needs and scope. Trainer has a good pace and is engaging and uses practical exercises to bring out learning. Knowledgeable with lots of practical experience the trainer could bring things to light with realistic and practical considerations. Reflected well on bespoke needs and reflecting in areas that teams work in. Would be good to pause in talking a little more to ensure more time for delegates to speak, at points.  Good energy.\
Norman was extremely helpful and helped bring the material to life. \
Having known the basics of the topic I came away with a good solid foundation. The course and materials were engaging\
\
\
\
There was some confusion about what was relevant for us as an MGA, whilst I appreciate that the trainer may not have known this asking us about our business may have been helpful. \
\
I received a letter telling me that the course would be at one location, I turned up there to find it was actually at another causing me to arrive late. Another person had the same issue.\
In my opinion, too much focus on Banks (the whole morning up till lunch) and they are just one section (albeit substantial!) of FI firms. Some focus on other industries - Investment Managers, Crowdfunders, Asset Managers, etc. - would have been welcome.   Also, 40mins were spent reading through old news stories with examples of crime against Banks. I think this would have been more relevant if the examples were related back to policies/issues of coverage rather than simply demonstrating that crime can happen against FI in several ways (which we would already know). \
\
We didn't manage to get through all of the material in time and seemed to miss some important and relevant information that was scheduled towards he end of the day.  \
Ruth was incredibly knowledgeable, engaging, a great tutor who made you feel at ease. The course content was very interactive which helped bring the group together. I certainly gained a greater understanding of the topic which will benefit me in my job role going forward. \
\
I thought that the training was very good and gave me a better understanding of commercial insurance as a whole.   The trainer was very clear and answered/explained areas where we might of needed more training to have a fuller understanding.   Overall very good. \
Overall the course was very good- we wasted quite a lot of time at the start of the day and this meant I felt some parts such as the claims element was quite rushed. However, the trainer was very engaging and there was a good balance of interaction and activities,\
I thought the course was very beneficial, I've taken a lot away from it not just for my work but for personal use as well. The trainer was very knowledgeable and confident in many areas which was very reassuring when it came to answering questions. The lunch was fabulous as well!! \
Fantastic trainer, very informative. I would definitely recommend this training course.\
Very information trainer, able to ask loads of questions and facilities very comfortable and welcoming.  \
\
Would have been nice to have had a few extra participants in the course - there was only me and one other, however, it went well and a good day was had.  A minor quibble - lunch was not great. \
\
\
The trainer was very knowledgeable and personable. He was conscious of the fact that the attendees had differing levels of knowledge of the class of insurance and checked that we all had an understanding at each stage of the training. He used excellent examples of who would use the product and why and excellent examples of claims. The one negative relates to the venue. The air conditioning was set so cold it was uncomfortable and there wasn't anybody who knew where to switch it off. \
\
\
The course was rather muddled in presentation and the trainer was pleasant but not always distinct in her delivery\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
A really informative course with a knowledgeable trainer. The beginning of the course is a little basic, but the case studies were challenging and interesting. \
Trainer was excellent and tailored his explanations to make them relevant to the experiences of the students. \
The trainer was very engaging and their experience within the industry was really useful. The course content was well structured and the trainer managed to relate each element of the course to the work performed by each of the delegates which made for a very talkative and collaborative group. I felt very at ease and relaxed and I learned much more than I thought I would!\
Really useful training session - very informative.\
I thought the course was excellent. However on the CII website it was advertised as intermediate. When I got to the course it was an  Introduction course. I decided to stay as it does not hurt to have a refresher course on this subject.\
\
\
The trainer on this course was fantastic - so much knowledge and given in a very easy to understand way\
Very good relevant course in line with today's  day to business needs.\
\
Great day! Picked up a lot and would definitely recommend  \
Wasn't as useful as the Introduction to cyber for my class of business. Think the material is slightly out dated to what is happening in the current property market. Otherwise very good and useful. I did take a few things away from it and thought the trainer was very good too.\
\
\
Fantastic course and very insightful into a new, developing product. \
\
Overall a very informative course, that was at the right level for me.   I\
the course itself was good but a bit difficult trying to apply it to motorclaims as it was fairly commercial based due to the audience in the room (mostly commercial based background). Trainer was good at applying some motor examples. Although some of the contents were refreshing, i also found a little bit repetitive of the introuction course, but that is due to the candidates not enrolling in the first course. again, no fault of trainer. Overall a good informative course \
Very good, enjoyable and educational course. Facilities were fantastic and the trainer made the content relevant for both participants. \
Probably was hoping for more of a property investors angle as opposed to general property but this may be a different course\
\
Great course, great trainer and learnt a lot - look forward to the intermediate one!\
Generally could, would definitely recommend to someone just entering the world of cyber, I already have an understanding and was using this to ensure I was aware of everything required for the intermediate course and gain some wider market understanding of the market.\
\
\
Ingrid was a great tutor who has years and years of insurance knowledge under her belt! There was a small group of 3 candidates in total which made it a lot easier for us all to ask questions we were unsure of and Ingrid made sure she went through the presentation with great attention to detail. Would definitely look forward to attending another course where she will be leading.\
\
Extremely informative day. David was very good at keeping everyone engaged and managed to keep it all simple, yet educational\
\
Very useful and insightful course.  It made me aware of a number of pitfalls and how little is generally known about this area of insurance.\
The venue was very easy to find and had good facilities. The trainer was extremely knowledgeable about the course subject and I left having learnt a lot. This was an introduction level course and I appreciate there was a lot of content and more experienced people in the room, however I felt there were times this exceeded introduction level.  \
\
Very much geared up for face to face sales, was looking for maybe more telephone negotiation techniques to suit my job role more but Kevin Hopton was a very good trainer and tried to deviate off the course when he could to accommodate our needs.\
\
\
\
\
Confusion around the venue for this course; had conflicting addresses as did other on the course and resulted in one attendee being late.\
The letter confirming the date and venue contained the wrong Venue and I missed the first hour of the session as I walking around Leeds (I do not know the area at all) looking for the correct venue.\
This course was very good at showing us an introductory to claims handling and the majority of the time the trainer was able to adapt to our level of understanding.\
I thought the session might be more technical and advanced than it was.\
\
The course was very basic and was not related to the management of binding authorities. The first half of the session was detailing what delegated underwriting was, and the second half was about conducting a Coverholder audit. The former was LM1 and 2 material and the latter freely available on the Lloyds website, and unrelated to the actual management of a binding authority.  The course detailed the types delegated authority (lineslip, consortium etc.), and went through a binding authority agreement, again freely available from the LMA. The audit process was interesting, but I did not think it was well covered or particularly necessary.   Ben knew what he was talking about and was happy to engage with questions but the overall content was extremely basic and I do not feel as though I really learned anything new that was not taught at Cert. CII level.  Considering the course was titled 'Binding Authority Management' it was assumed it would actually be about managing binders, typical Coverholder enquiries, what to expect when dealing with a new Coverholder, Bordereau processing and things of this nature. That it was labelled 'Intermediate' certainly needs to be addressed, as in no way was this an intermediate course.   The venue, ETC. Venues in Moorgate was excellent. The food provided was well varied and ample beverages throughout the day was of good stock. The WIFI was easy to connect to with the provided password. \
\
\
\
\
I have been to better facilities but the course itself was very good. Peter knew his stuff and was a very good trainer. \
\
\
Very thought provoking course, certainly learnt a lot of new skills and was reminded of some I already knew about.  Definitely felt I had benefited from the day and have been putting the skills learnt into practice.\
I found this course very useful and enjoyable and would certainly recommend this to anyone who struggles with time management or prioritisation issues. The only reason for not giving 5 stars was myself and someone else did not receive some pre-course activity material which was sent by email so we couldn't go into too much detail on this part of the training.\
\
A very well structured course that provided a considerable amount of detail in an understandable format.  Will be of considerable use whenever I am looking at a marine transit or cargo risk.\
I would say the course relates more to large Marine Transit policies\
Stephen is not only very knowledgeable in the field of marine insurance, he is also able to deliver the material in such a way that a relative novice was able to understand. He kept us engaged and involved throughout and I've left with far more knowledge than I began the day with and feel very much that it was time well spent. \
Great trainer who was very engaging. \
\
Joining instructions did not state name of Building, so had difficulty finding the Venue.  Room was very warm, and the air-con struggled to cool it down. There was so much Content to the course we could easily have spent another day on it - very interesting and informative\
The course was well presented and informative \
The subject of the training can be a bit dull but I thought the trainer approached it in a way that mixed up technical content with case study type examples and related some of his own experiences in a way that kept the delegates interested.\
Excellent course helped me achieve a good understanding of D & O. However, a lot of material to absorb in one day!\
The training was relevant and well thought out.  \
Excellent trainer - I felt I learnt a great deal. \
It was a small group which was nice as this enabled us to share ideas and thoughts openly. The format and material was good. The trainer encouraged openness and interaction. The venue was nice.\
Struggled to locate the Building where the course was being held as the joining instructions referred to the building by another name other than that One of the best courses I have been on. Small group of us which meant we were able to have lots of open discussions and refer to real life experiences. Lots of good hand outs too which I'm sure will be of good use in the future.\
\
\
Jonathan delivered one of the best lectures I have been to. He was engaging and enthusiastic making the content interactive where possible. Not at any point throughout the lecture did I lose interest or concentration, couldn't recommend or praise him enough.\
Room was far too hot and there was a mix-up with lunch. Can't fault Diane - outstanding trainer.\
I was sent a letter with one set of joining instructions and I went to the venue stated. It turns out an email had been sent out giving a different address (although it did not refer to the written joining instructions being superseded) so I ended up going to the wrong venue as a result.  The course itself was informative and well taught. \
\
\
\
\
The training centre was well located and the facilities excellent. Administration was appalling with the course being cancelled and re-arranged twice and then being sent the wrong joining instructions - I was wondering whether it would ever take place!\
\
I think the only thing that hindered the course slightly was other attendees general understanding of basic insurance regulation/ law etc. Trainer was engaging and related learning to stories and participation in quizzes and tasks.   Went away with a greater understanding PI insurance in terms of what to look out for and why and how cover applies. \
As always CII offered a quality session from an excellent and engaging Trainer.   Found the training really useful.  Have already started using some of the skills learned.\
As always CII offered a quality session from an excellent and engaging Trainer.   Found the training really useful.  Have already started using some of the skills learned.\
\
bit of a maze to get to the room - at the wrong end for facilities.  took a bit of finding as no reception pointing you in the right direction. no complaints with lunch provided. \
With just 2 attendees, there was less opportunity to learn from other delegates which is often very valuable.  Although the theory was very interesting it may have been helpful to have had tips on how other similar organisations have put the theory into practise.  I definitely think the course could have been condensed into half a day.\
\
The course was very interesting and went away with more knowledge on property owners and yes I would recommended the course.  I would also like to see a course for just residential property owners as this is my main type of insurance clients is based.  The trainer was very knowledgeable on the subject and very interesting to learn from.\
\
Really good course with small group so lots of time to ask questions. Trainer was really helpful and materials good.\
This was meant to be an Introduction to D&O however the content was far too complex and not relevant to the policies we handle. All attendees advised Rosie that we did not handle International D&O risks but then a lot of the subject matter was on risks in overseas territories. We expected to learn about the basis policy cover and also the additional extensions which can be added and the cover they provide. We asked Rosie to explain the Crime extension under D&O but she advised that this was a cover that could not be given under D&O. This is not aimed personally at Rosie as she was a very professional lady but the content was far too complex for an Introductory course.\
Cannot  get in to line for the 2nd qu to provide 0 - 10 answer (it would be 8).  The venue was not released until after I had booked the course.  Had I known it was Bourneville I would have selectted an alternative; direct public transport links are not good. The venue itseld was fine, just the location. \
\
I found the course very useful.  David's detailed and helpful explanation of the course material and the small group meant that we could discuss any issues until they were fully understood.  I left with a better understanding of business interruption.  The venue was easy to get to, and the facilities were good.\
The course and the trainer were excellent.  the only thing I would say is that I have not received the email with the course content as yet.\
The trainer was incredible. The only down fall was that the trainer advised we should have been sent material before the event and after the event by the CII and none of this has been received.\
Extremely well run and the clear insight and explanation around a complicated subject well delivered in the right tone \
I found this course very well presented, the trainer used techniques to keep it fun and interesting. I learned a lot.\
Having done some courses on bank clauses. contractors clauses I did find the content lacking slightly for an intermediate level. That said, it was a very good refresher and Neil was very knowledgeable. \
\
\
Facilities were fine Administration/organisation - First training course in Bristol cancelled then the day after this I received joining instructions. Then received paperwork for a course I wasn't attending \
Felt that the course could be condensed into less time,  definitely less information from the first half of the day.  did not feel that I had left the course learning a lot and after talking to the others they all made the same comments.\
\
Had to walk to another training centre. Would have been easier just to meet there initially.  Didn't receive final joining instructions and had to chase\
The course was brilliant, the trainer was very engaging and I would 100% attend another course with him. I found the hand-outs afterwards really really useful to refer back to. I would give 10/10 for absolutely everything. \
Enjoyed the course overall and the trainer's style/how he applied his knowledge. My only issue was a small gap in my knowledge that I still am a little unsure of but on the whole this was a well put together session for such a complex subject. \
Overall the course was very useful and gave a good grounding in Business Interruption. The explanations were well thought through and the whole day had a good pace.   I did raise a question regarding Increased Costs of Working Cover, which although well explained, having looked through policy wordings that I use on a regular basis, the answer did not correlate with how I understand the policies to operate. Primarily, it was explained that ICOW does not have an economic limit, however I think they do? This left me with some questions after the day. \
Met expectations and achieved what I was hoping to have done.\
Content was at a basic/elementary level, probably for new entrants.\
\
\
\
\
Very good \
\
I found Chris Parslow to be a very effective tutor, credible with great presence and experience\
\
\
Enjoyable worthwhile day, learnt alot\
\
Good course overall. Just got a little bit heavy going in the afternoon session.\
\
\
The course started at quite a basic level which I feel wasted a bit of time, but I appreciate that Glyn had to take in to account the mixed range of experience and ability. I would be interested in an advanced course.  Disappointing that the venue had not arranged coffee/refreshments in the morning session.\
\
\
Quite interesting. Some was a little confusing but as I am new to the industry it is understandable.\
Trainer was extremely knowledgeable and approachable, and engaged well with both myself and my colleague. Material was also excellent and both the material and trainer helped to explain the issues surrounding professional indemnity and various complexities extremely well.  Administration and booking was also excellent to my knowledge. the venue itself was suitable if a little cold, however I feel the refreshments and lunch provided by the staff at the venue was a bit sub-par - we were not told when lunch had arrived and was hidden around the corner from the training room, and the water cooler wasn't working correctly. \
Training content excellent and effectively delivered by Diane, who is clearly a expert in this field. Extremely thought provoking and informative.\
\
\
\
\
Generally good experience with the introduction to insurance course. Location and the centre was very nice. At the beginning of the course its was very good and simple with the information provided. Then the rest of the course kind of felt rushed and couldn't really gain much material towards the ends.\
Course was good but unfortunately poorly attended which makes it difficult when trying to use live examples.\
A well run course that proved very productive in an excellent venue.\
Steve was very knowledgeable and it was good to be able to use the building next door as an example case study.\
Sarah made the course enjoyable and it was good to confirm the knowledge I already had\
John was a really good trainer. He knew the subject inside out  and was able to answer any questions that we had. The content of the course was good and in more than enough detail. I would thoroughly recommend this course and John to any one who was seeking to develop their Cargo knowledge.\
What Diane doesn't know about BI insurance is not worth knowing.  Really good course.\
The facility was changed the day before the event. Fortunately this venue was wonderful and the course and teacher where brilliant. Nothing to complain about. \
\
The time to ask questions were very useful and the teacher revealed a deep knowledge of the matter\
\
\
Good informative course.\
\
I think the Trainer and the facilities were outstanding, I learned a lot. However I personally think it could of been done with more activities rather than the 1 underwriting, insuring and broking activity.\
I didn't receive the joining instructions and when I tried to call the phone lines were so busy it took several attempts to get through.  It tried emailing but got a response saying you would reply in 10 days! The room at the Town Hall was very cold and apart from water we didn't get a drink until 12.45 as no one seemed to know we were expecting any hot drinks.  \
\
\
There was a little difficulty relating to the computers supplied, and what each one was capable of doing. But Glynn handled it well and I think we all learnt a lot from what Excel can do nowadays.\
Best facilities I have experienced on a course. Hope to return to ETC. Venues again.\
Facility was brilliant, maybe try and cover a few more areas within commercial insurance. Was mainly Business Interruption. \
Great Course, very informative, came away feeling as if i had learnt a lot.  Jonathan was great to listen to as he kept things interesting. The class was not bored once. He was also happy to answer extra questions and spend a lot of time on certain topics that require a little extra focus. Would highly recommend to my Contingency colleagues.  \
\
Really helpful course. Good for beginners, but also good as a refresher for more experienced people\
Seemed to be an issue with the handouts arriving, this was due to the courier firm - no blame to be apportioned to the trainer but it did mean some charts, which had coloured lines, were in black and white which meant they were difficult to review.  Fascinating course which I would, and have, recommended to others. \
David kept the whole class engaged and broke down insurance very well by getting us involved and asking questions. For a course that lasts all day he did well keeping our interest levels up.  Facilities: Toilets were blocked which was not a good first impression. Lunch:  Lunch wasn't ordered so we had to go out as a group to get lunch.  \
\
The participants were not all on the same leevel of experience and expertise so the trainer had to slow down to meet the needs of everybody. A more coherent (more senior) group probably could have discussed more topics more thoroughly. But overall: very good course.\
\
I think it is good for a new starter to insurance but not someone who have been in it for nearly 10 years. not the trainers fault.\
\
\
Kevin was a great trainer and relayed lots of his vast knowledge on negotiating tips and techniques in an interactive way. I would love to go on one of his courses again. \
\
Very informative course. Trainer was engaging and approachable. \
\
\
\
Great trainer and course. It was unfortunate that I didn't receive the conformation email until the day before the course in the future more notice would be preferable.\
It wasnt very specific to BROKERS i would say, but that was OK as we could ask for specific help / examples. Would be good if more insurance specific perhaps. \
\
\
Good course which I found useful and will be helpful in my work some of which involves lengthy premium allocations - so formulas , formatting , navigation tips were all good\
\
\
\
There needs to be an advance training session made available\
\
It appeared strange that the 2 candidates attending the course were both from my employer but the course was at a venue not at our employers. Surely a saving could be made by coordinating this better?\
The practical nature of this course including current industry examples makes the training extremely relevant and appropriate for day-to-day actual experience rather than the theoretical scenarios in textbooks. Steve ensured there was continuous involvement with all students and this ensured opinions from all sections of the industry to be heard, from loss adjusters to brokers to underwriters, giving a much broader view of the topic. \
\
Impressive and very very hands on. Practical experience from someone who really knows their field. There is a fine line in negotiating between successfully closing and rubbing the client up the wrong way by being too pushy - the art of negotiation was incredible to find point of being in control and getting things done. Highly recommended for anyone who feels they need the confidence boost to be able to approach clients and run the meeting to our agenda rather than the clients and ensure there is some action that develops from that meeting.\
\
\
\
Excellent course which was well presented. The handouts have been of use and were an excellent addition to the training itself. \
The trainer was a great character, however, for an intermediate course I found the course lacked content. \
This would be a very good introduction for those who have no experience in Fine Arts - having been involved for the last year, I found the morning sessions a good recap.  The material made reference to 5% IPT which would suggest old papers - there have been quite a few changes to wordings and such like in recent years. Perhaps more up to date papers would be useful. Also, following a very interesting morning, the afternoon was noticeably different.  Personally, I feel the reading of policy wording/entries from wording etc can be less than exciting - meaning the afternoon, when everyone has eaten and feeling a tad sluggish, was less involved than the morning. \
Good course, interesting material, with relevant examples given.\
\
Really useful and relaxed course to allow us to discuss through all delegates experience with the contracts they deal with.\
\
\
\
I found the course very informative, interesting and enjoyable.  It was eye opening with regard to understanding how easy you don't listen to what is being said. Plus the transactional analysis was especially interesting. I have since run the questions with other members of staff to see if we arrive at the same result  and yes we do.     \
\
Trainer was excellent and with only 4 delegates it was easy to stay engaged. Room was fine but 3 out of 4 of us went to the wrong venue as we hadn't realised it had changed and there were problems with the computer.  Lunch wasn't very good.\
\
\
\
This was a good course and I think everyone should do it. It was beneficial. \
\
In the material there were exercises but we didn't do all of them which was a shame.  Also it was quite cold in the room.   Re food, there was a lot of waste as most delegates on the course didn't eat seafood so it would have been worth asking delegates before hand about dietary requirements.\
I feel as if the course should have been more detailed, but was adequate overall\
Trainer was very good, able to answer questions and give really good scenarios, best CII course I have attended\
\
\
Very good course - will definitely book further courses in the future.\
Everything was excellent! \
It was a very informative session and as there were only three delegates the meeting flowed very well and everyone was able to discuss the content of the course in some depth.   \
Possibly the most intimate training I've ever attended with only two candidates turning up. This allowed for us to cover all of the intended content but to explore and discuss a range of related subjects and areas. Nik is a very charismatic individual with the ability to hold your attention throughout the entire day bringing many anecdotes from his wealth of knowledge and past working life. I don't think I've attended another training course that I've both thoroughly enjoyed as much as I did this one or retained as much of the learning past the week of the event. Fascinating, I've already recommended it to colleagues.\
\
Was very good course if you have no knowledge of commercial insurance. Trainer was very good and clear. \
The course trainer was very knowledgeable and was able to tailor the course content to the ability and number of attendees\
Very good interactive course which kept you thinking.\
\
\
Excellent content and trainer \
I didn't feel that the content was intermediate, I thought it more of a beginner level. Although it was a good refresher course for me I cant say that I learnt anything \
Chris Dix was an excellent trainer, very knowledgeable and engaging.  I learnt a lot from him.  The course notes were also excellent.\
\
very fun, interesting and learnt quite a bit. Sarah was fantastic\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Course content was excellent and delivered really well. Exercises to get teams involved really helped me learn. \
Facilities were very easy to find and the speaker did an excellent job of presenting, a very good course which I would highly recommend to colleagues\
Very useful.\
Trainer was amazing and gave the course the much needed edge.   She was very informative and achieved great interaction, her background gave the much needed case studies\
\
\
I thought the course was good and interesting, however a lot did not apply to me personally it was more a managers role.   I did come away with a few points and would recommend the course. The trainer was good and took the time to explain and listen to what you were saying.               \
\
\
I found the overall really enjoyable, coming from an insurance background where I had no involvement in D&O - This training really helped my understand it and I definitely felt more confident discussing it after. \
I think Nick did a fantastic job in adapting his delivery for his audience of 1 delegate.  He used excellent examples that helped me to understand the course content and he was very good at relating it back to my own personal circumstances at my company.   In terms of course material I would have preferred a bound workbook or at least a folder to keep all loose documents together in one place.  The course materials themselves are excellent and will be good resources for me to use when I put this learning into practice.\
\
\
\
Very Interesting course and fabulous facilities\
A well presented and engaging course  Only slight let down was the facilities - particularly the tolets - which could have been serviced more regularly\
I'd appreciate getting a copy of the slides Diane used via email ; hope this possible\
Location was ok, but not great. Sarah was a good trainer and the course content was useful.\
\
\
\
I wouldn't say the course was the best and there wasn't that much information or content provided. It could have easily been done in a morning session, but it somehow lasted the whole day.  There was too much time spent on providing examples on fires that had destroyed fine art and examples of fraud in respect of art.  It was not till the end of the day that we started looking at policy wordings and it would have been better had we spent more time looking through my insurance type documents such as wordings / slips rather than just newspaper articles.  From an insurance perspective, there was not a lot of information. \
Having attended the Foundation course a few weeks earlier I felt that this course covered a large amount of the same material and I had expected a higher level of progression and additional information.\
Great course. Very informative. Could be a little intense for a first exposure to cyber insurance. \
\
\
Facilities were really good apart from the wrong location given initially\
\
\
Although there was some confusion at the start in respect of Deadstock / Livestock - Sarah did really well in changing the course and applying this to the equine.\
The venue changed from Foundation House that was originally advised, and I wasn't notified by you again. This has happened the last two times I have registered for a course and means the course starts without me and I arrive at the correct venue rushed and flustered. It cant be my address that's the issue as I receive other correspondence from you.   \
\
\
Easy atmosphere, cleverly worded and explained to allow candidates to feel at ease and participate\
I gained more knowledge from the course and was very happen with the content \
Excellent trainer who was engaging and covered each subject thoroughly and with great knowledge. Got to know his audience quickly and determined what was needed as a group.\
I achieved more knowledge of BI from this course and found it very helpful in my understanding of BI cover\
\
Enjoyed the course but as there were only 2 of us attending, discussion and interaction with others was missing - having said this it was good to be able to adapt the content more specifically to our needs.\
COURSE MATERIAL ON BI WAS VERY HELPFUL AND I LEFT THE CENTRE WITH MORE KNOWLEDGE AND UNDERSTANDING OF BI \
Excellent course with lots of useful, thought provoking information.  Would recommend to anyone who struggles with their time management.\
The course objectives implied that there would be a more detailed review of contracts.  The focus was more on the law rather than important clauses / implications of particular contract references, and not enough time was given to this. The Collateral Warranty / Defects Liability information was good, but again not enough time was given to this.  \
I learnt a lot more than I expected to learn. Extremely happy with the course material and would happily recommend to everyone. \
\
Really good course, run very professionally. Great venue too.\
\
I felt the course was paced well throughout the day and the content was evenly distributed and interesting. Lunch from Pret was a good idea as it meant people could pick something they would actually eat. The instructions regarding fire exits/toilets was not done at the beginning of the course. Otherwise the facilities and drink making facilities were good. \
Excellent all round. The Trainer was extremely knowledgeable and engaging.\
\
\
\
\
Would have been helpful to have been sent some course material prior to  the course for reading/digesting propetly such as copy policy wordings.  Trainer was very knowledgeable on the subject but flitted a little from one thing to another so was a little difficult to keep up - she did have a lot of material to cover so can understand - but that may have been alleviated by us having material to read & digest before hand which could have also made the course day shorter.  Hard to keep focused for such a long duration. \
The training room was extremley cold sat under the aircon blowers which could not be switched off!\
I felt the course content was geared toward larger risks/clients yet all of the brokers attending were operating in the SME market . Basic Pre Course reading material and more in course summary information would increase the course benefits for real world application. P.M In course workshop exercises caused confusion and undermined A.M Learning contents (which was good). I feel the course could be run more effectively as a 1/2 days course with more focused concise content\
The trainer was very knowledgeable and hopeful and able to present an inter-active course well to address issues as they arose.  The course itself was well thought through, although the comment was well made by others that perhaps the weighting could be increased towards more reviews of case studies and less recap over background law (although I feel it is important that recap is included to some extent).  I would be interested in a follow-up / advanced course should one become available. The venue was fine, albeit not the easiest to get to.\
Although clearly an intelligent (and very nice/friendly) trainer, felt he did not have much bloodstock knowledge and that I didn't really learn much.\
\
Very good overall coverage to give a high level understanding of Lloyds and the London Market\
Very useful, as it's a subject that I had little prior knowledge about. \
Would have been easier for travelling to be in Birmingham City Centre. The training centre was very busy so we had to queue for lunch & drinks.\
Trainer was excellent and content very good with a difficult topic.  Venue is difficult to find. The air con came on half way through which couldn't be turned off and made people lose concentration. Tea and coffee wasn't served at the right time.\
Only issue was the heating/air conditioning in the room - it was blasting us with cold air!  Course content was very useful and I can definitely see it helping me in engaging clients in discussions relating to cyber insurance, rather than skirting around the subject.\
\
\
\
A very worthwhile course.\
The course and its arrangements were excellent. Recommendation of the course would depend on how relevant it was to the person enquiring but if relevant - a certain recommendation.   Thank you - Tim Street\
Thank You\
All together an excellent course with the trainer engaging with the audenece\
\
\
\
\
\
Enjoyed reinsurance element but found ART unnecesary \
\
The course was well delivered, and the contents were of use.  Due to  the small number of candidates, the material could be and was tailored to our individual job positions and circumstances.  Would look to attend a similar course, however this time targeting how to generate and convert new business.\
\
Great course, teacher had a good knowledge of the subject. \
\
Really enjoyed the course, interesting and informative.\
\
Trainer was great! Very friendly!   Facilities were okay but rather chilly!\
Overall, this was a great course! I found that the content was very interesting and relevant! I felt that I learnt a lot from this! Will go onto the next one \
\
Neil Park identified all the course participants requirements at he start of the course day and delivered effectively in meeting those objectives. A really useful days training \
Neil Park identified all the course participants requirements at he start of the course day and delivered effectively in meeting those objectives. A really useful days training \
Nick really brought T&C to life, I found the course extremely helpful for me to use in my current role. Everything I previously knew regarding T&C Schemes was self taught, it was great to know what I am doing is right and to give me further ideas and guidance. I now feel that I can run the T&C Scheme in the department I train more effectively and assist my colleges in the implementation of their T&C Scheme's when these are rolled out in their departments. Nick\'82\'c4\'f4s knowledge of T&C is very in-depth, he answered all of the questions that we had and also allowed us to explore ideas and ways forward with T&C as a group, his input helped us take these further and question how these would work, thank you Nick!\
This course was great, aimed at a good level, comprehensive intro to the industry and the fundamentals of insurance. \
Great course. Very interactive and suited various delegates from different disciplines\
This was a really useful course. Steve was obviously very knowledgeable and had some fantasic examples of cases to back up the subjects we discussed.\
I didn't receive my information pack until a week after the course had taken place.  I called the CII the day before the course and asked where it was and what times were etc. and was told the wrong location. Turned out the place had changed but this was overlooked which was frustrating considering the cost of the course.  Any rebate or credits towards future events would be welcomed. Credit to the CII for holding the event despite there being only 3 anticipated attendees.   \
\
Basic entry level course, not overly complicated, an ideal introduction.  Trainer had loads of practical examples to illustrate the concepts being introduced.\
\
Really useful and Dave adapted the course well to cater for the reduced numbers.\
A very knowledgeable tutor, with a cheerful and interesting presentation style.   I particularly found the comparison of strikes and war clauses to exclusions useful, together with the bill of lading.  All in all, a highly useful day. Thanks.\
\
Really enjoyed this Training Course. Chris' style of training really suits me and I took a lot from the day.\
Lunch was also very good.\
\
\
Good content and flexible allowing us to cover all topics but allowing us to discuss other relevant areas when required\
Steve provided a very useful days training.\
Steve presented this course superbly using examples where necessary and encouraged class participation. \
The course was poorly structured and I felt, whilst undoubtedly a nice man, the trainer did not know the subject particularly well.  Much of the course involved literally reading a wording page by page or discussing insurance issues unrelated to the course subject.  The case studies used were poorly thought out and I gained little (if any) technical knowledge from the course\
Great course and the content was very useful. Trainer answered all queries and kept us engaged. Explained the topic well and I feel more confident selling engineering insurance.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
A very well run course, very well presented. \
I've been on a few courses now. This Property Owners course was first class, I loved it. Learnt a lot and met other like minded people. \
The booking of the course is not 'User friendly' as CII do not accept Purchase orders. Council's only raise orders these day via Purchase Orders so teh CII should bear this on mind and be more flexible regarding how a courseis paid.\
\
I thought the main problem was that it wasn't clear what level the course was aimed at before booking so it was a mixed bag of delegates at different levels expecting different things,  I did think that the trainer accommodated this very well on the day though. Overall it was a successful day of learning for me, although it started off very basic we did go onto more challenging aspects of Excel and I would be interested if CII were to offer the advanced course next.\
I thought Ruth was excellent and content was very useful.   She made it interesting by making it interactive and made sure everyone understood before moving on. It was nice how Ruth knew when short breaks were needed to make it as productive as possible. I felt very comfortable during this course. This made it enjoyable and worth it for me.\
The course was intense and I found it difficult to concentrate in the latter part of the day\
\
\
A little disappointed overall\
\
Had to repeatedly chase for joining instructions which only finally arrived the day before the course.\
\
Unfortunatley, there were no course materials provided on the day and the trainer found it difficult to cover off everything that was need.  Steve did his best with the materials he had but  i found the course a disappointment and a waste of time and money.  The experience has made me very wary of booking any further Cii courses.  Thank you for your time \
Sarah was an excellent trainer, with the perfect balance between presenting to the group and interaction amongst ourselves and allowed flexibility with the syllabus. The only odd part of the day was her having to take us to Pret to get lunch at the last minute as nothing had been arranged internally beforehand. \
\
\
\
\
well run, interesting and engaging course\
\
Room and support equipment was good. Provision of drinks and biscuits was also good however,  the lunch provided was minimal for the number of attendees and some did not actually get a sandwich!! \
I found the course informative which gave an overall view of this type of insurance and came away with a much better understanding.\
\
Very relaxed learning atmosphere with flexible trainer\
\
\
Room was a little warm especially when quite small\
With a varied mix of knowledge in respect of D&O I didn't feel that this was necessarily an intermediate course\
Donna, was fantastic very engaging and I was also very lucky that we only had 3 of us on the course so very bespoke. My company had organised something similar a few years back so if the course had been full it may not have been as beneficial but I would certainly recommend this for new members of staff.\
This course was the most pertinent course that I have been on to date.  I have already recommended it to everyone I know from work colleagues to others.  Duncan was brilliant and explained everything in simple terms and by being interactive, the info actually sinks in!  Thank you for the excel spreadsheet to go with the notes I took.  I have never been in a course that made the day go so fast - I was totally engrossed!  I am so pleased that I attended.  Thank you to the CII and all involved.\
\
\
Very good. did not get bored as Neil was as 'monotone' as some trainers are where you just want to fall asleep.  Looked into which companies delegates worked at so he could make course a bit more specific to us rather than talking about something we would never deal with.  Certainly made me more confident in talking to clients about D&O\
Very good. did not get bored as Neil was as 'monotone' as some trainers are where you just want to fall asleep.  Looked into which companies delegates worked at so he could make course a bit more specific to us rather than talking about something we would never deal with.  Certainly made me more confident in talking to clients about D&O\
I was the only broker on the course. The other delegates were insurers. I feel the course content was more tailored for an insurer, rather than a broker, and the name of the course 'Excel for Brokers' was somewhat misleading.  Although the trainer was extremely good, very patient and clear, and I would still recommend this course to a colleague.\
Informative and thought provoking course\
\
The trainer was really good - the course would be good for candidates with no experience in insurance. I was sent on the course after 4 years experience so I knew everything already.  The venue was very cramped - we were put in a very small room and 5 of us sharing one small table so a little bit claustrophobic. Also could not open window / no air con so it got very warm very fast. \
Discussions were very good and instructor very knowledgeable.  I am now working in Switzerland so little more international aspects will be nice.\
Overall, the training room was good but due to the air conditioning, we were cold.\
The course over ran and did not finish until after 5pm which is late for a Friday and a London course.  We were advised it would finish by 4.30pm.\
I attended this course with a view to improving my existing knowledge, as it was supposed to be an Intermediate course. however I felt that the pitch was more towards a beginners course, and whilst it was interesting and I believe the trainer was very knowledgeable I felt that I did not really gain much new knowledge. I also felt that the time on the course was not managed very well.\
\
\
Dave really knew his stuff and was very friendly. He was also very good involving you and at keeping you engaged with the information he was providing.   Regular breaks were very good too. \
\
I thoroughly enjoyed the course, I would definitely recommend this to another colleague! \
A very informative course at a beginners level and a brief overview of JCT cover.  I understand that there is an intermediate course available in circa 6 months time, which I would be interested in attending as I feel that this would  assist me greater with the understanding I require in respect of the JCT contract clause 6.5.1 \
\
\
\
Very insightful course into the world of Jewellers Block and the different aspects to it. Jonathan was extremely enthusiastic and knowledgeable & I would happily recommend both him and the course to others looking to obtain an insight into this subject.\
The trainer was very knowledgeable  and I enjoyed the interactive scenarios. \
Found the course very interesting, and would happily recommend to others.  Course content was delivered in a clear, concise manner, making the session enjoyable and informative.\
\
\
\
Covered a wide range of information about P.I which I felt was good\
I found the course an excellent introduction into Cyber Risks and Insurance.\
Really useful course - the course trainer was very knowledgeable and had a good teaching technique\
\
\
Generally very good. Slightly disappointed in the catering as the sandwich choices were a bit too exotic - something plainer without mayo, chutney etc. would have been good. However, course delivery very good and well-paced.\
\
Street address of venue should be included on booking confirmation & joining instructions; which should be available on e-mail.\
I found the course very helpful and have already booked the follow-up course\
\
Very good course. Trainer was very knowledgeable and the content was also good. The activities were also good to keep us attentive.\
\
Trainer was clearly spoken with a good depth of knowledge about the product and in turn generated a lot of discussion. \
\
Very difficult to carry out a course on Advanced Liability in one day. \
\
\
There is a changed of venue. My team was not told of the last minute change. Staff of CII was not able to guide us the exact place resulting us late for the training after a long walk of unfamiliar streets and poor direction given by your team. Poor administration and coordination by CII staff. Very disappointing since the training was our main highlight of our trip to London!\
\
Looking forward to the Intermediate course in October\
When i first arrived at the course to find only two attendees I was a little apprehensive... How wrong I was!!  I can not praise Kevin highly enough. He was approachable, knowledgeable and made the whole day enjoyable whilst being incredibly informative.  His style and delivery is of such high quality i think the course was possibly the best i have experienced in my 15 years as a broker. I would definitely recommend Kevin and would be delighted to attend any of his courses in the future.... Thank you \
\
Well structured and good worships which made you think about the cover required and how some liability policies dovetail with coverage.\
The course was very informative and the trainer very knowledgeable \
The facilities were good, but it was inconvenient to have the venue changed at short notice and apparently some people did not get the email notifying the change\
I thought David was very good. Insurance is a very dry subject and he attempted to instruct in an entertaining manner. The course content was good and pretty much covered what I was requiring.  The lunch was excellent and the coffee was a very valuable training aid. Overall i was very pleased with the course.\
Course and trainer were fantastic.\
\
there was a lot of noise from  millennium square due to threshers week and room quite cold. \
\
\
The trainer was very good at tailoring the course to the right level  and encouraging us to engage with the course content.\
Good trainer with practical advice, very relevant and useful.\
\
\
Good interaction and well laid out. Enjoyed the day and came away more confident in dealing with Motor Trade policies.\
Very informative and educational. I enjoyed this course and the small group allowed for detailed discussion.\
\
\
I found that it wasn't well found, a little more information on where the training was would of been more helpfully. However, everything else i thought was really good :) \
Really well done, I was expecting a very dry day, but thanks to Alison who was fantastic with us I genuinely got a lot out of the day. Would recommend the course and especially Alison to all and look forward to attending a more advanced course down the line.\
I tried to obtain the trainers details the afternoon before the day of the training course. I had to leave early from the training course to attend a work related event in the evening and I thought it would be polite to give notice to the trainer. When I phoned to obtain the number from the event organisers I was told that they didn't know who the trainer was (!?) and they couldn't give me the number. This along with other issues we have faced doesn't fill me with confidence at the organisation of these events This should have no reflection on the trainer or the course itself, which I found helpful and informative\
Good course and trainer, would recommend.\
\
\
not sure that the course was worthwhile. We read a Shops policy wording which wasn't a training method that would make me remember key points. I found that I was struggling to concentrate as it wasn't engaging.\
I thought the course was very informative and the speak was very knowledgeable and taught in a easy follow method in an interactive way which improved my learning overall.\
The day was as I expected, an intro to the technical side of policy wordings so it's hard to jazz that up but it was certainly helpful, effective and run with common sense and an inclusive approach by Steve. I liked the small groups as I had been an expecting quite a packed classroom but I certainly agree it is easier to manage and learn in the environment we were in.\
I expected to receive some form of confirmation that I attended this course. A certificate or similar to add to my training file.\
\
\
\
Very productive and detailed training. Enjoyed it a lot  many thanks \
Really enjoyed this course and thought that Dave was a great trainer as he was very knowledgeable and fielded our questions brilliantly. I thought Dave's style of training was fantastic. \
I thought Dave Hole was a very engaging and skilled leader for the course and I doubt it would have been as successful or interesting without him.\
The only problem I had was with the Lunch.  The voucher was placed on my desk without me knowing and so when I went to the Lloyd Building with the others for lunch I had to pay for it.\
Would appreciate notice in advance when the venue for this course is changed at the last minute.\
A good course, well delivered \
\
We were originally sent to the wrong address (the AXA building) and only found our way to the right address thanks to the lovely receptionist at AXA who contacted you to find out what was actually happening. I have since had further joining instructions from you confirming the AXA building as the location for future training. This isn't possible as they moved on 21st August. This wouldn't have been rectified if we weren't chasing for updates. When we actually arrived at the correct destination it was discovered that food hadn't been ordered. I'm assuming someone got on the phone and the food was eventually arranged but the organisation was very poor. Sarah was a brilliant trainer, explained things clearly and thoroughly. She was the saving grace of the entire day and none of this feedback should reflect on her. All I can say is that I'm very disappointed and would be reluctant to go on further training. I don't know Leeds very well and to turn up and not know whether I will have been directed to the incorrect location is worrying. \
\
The smaller group was much more personal and real life situations were able to be used to talk through examples of particular situations in the office. It was a lovely group as there was enough time for group discussion. \
\
\
\
Course content could have benefited from some real life claims examples and case studies\
\
\
Very Good course although I was the only attendee. \
\
Personally I found the course too long - although there is a lot to go through. However 6 hours proved to be quite stretching towards the end. Overall this was a really good training session and I would definitely recommend to others.\
\
Extremely informative course\
I found the course extremely helpful. The trainer was very flexible in training to individuals needs.\
\
The course was in our office, maybe not the best. Really good course.\
Course overall was informative and relevant. It answered a number of key questions I had going in. The facilities were acceptable delivering everything required but not overwhelming. \
I was left in the dark as to where to register - did not get acknowledgement that I noted as arrived or that we were waiting for 2 more people to arrive before starting (who eventually arrived a hour late). The food was a bit limited, and no fruit which would have been a health addition to the sandwiches, crisps and chocolate.\
Pace of course was excellent until two late arrivals disrupted the course, who clearly wanted to get one on one time with a trainer and had a vast amount of questions which were not necessarily related to the topics on hand.\
\
The CII are wasting money and making the whole process slower by sending out letters with joining instructions. Emails would be cheaper, more efficient and bring the CII more up to date\
David was very good and he seemed to have the answers to all the queries posed to him, the downside was the lack of numbers to offer more interaction\
\
Good location, excellent tutor - shame I was the only person! \
\
\
\
\
The course started with the basics of legal liability and was a good refresher and start to the course, and then moved to procedures and negotiations.  It was an interesting and informative course, with an excellent trainer, and provided a good insight to insurer's and solicitor's settlement methods, and the background to a personal injury claim.\
\
I was annoyed that there was a change of venue at the last minute as I was not available inteh office on Friday 20th and the course was on Wedessday 25th March. CII could hae telephoned me to let me know direct and to save me a journey to teh wrong location.\
\
\
Course was very good and informative, trainer was very good in conveying information.\
\
\
Course was interesting but the content was not as expected- felt that it was more 'understanding difficult customers' than 'managing difficult customers'.\
\
\
\
Would have preferred proper tea/coffee rather than a vending machine but lunch was good  \
Really enjoyed the course/material.  Very informative and I thought the trainer David was excellent in every area.\
\
\
Generally good course. Last part of course were a bit rushed.\
\
excellent course, excellent trainer. It was very benefitial to what I do in my evcery day job. great food. overall a really enjoyable day!\
Overall the course was really good and i enjoyed it. It was maybe a bit more basic than was expecting but overall a really good trainer.\
This course helped me to understand the basic procedures of claims handling. I thoroughly enjoyed it and would like to attend another course in the future to help with my studies.\
The course was more basic than I expected, but the trainer was engaging and the day was productive in terms of an re-cap of claims handling. \
\
\
\
\
The course seem to dwindle out throughout parts of the day, as the first stage up until the break was good, then it was slow starting again before lunch, and really only picked up again a few hours later.  I felt this was due to the stages in the break, as they occurred when team events had finished, as opposed to during it, so when the sessions restarted it was a bit like changing lessons in a school day. The content was good, as was the hand-outs. I just felt it lacked a bit of structure.\
\
\
\
Very useful, and can now put the techniques into practice at work\
Found this course really interesting, I took a lot from it\
Really enjoyed the course. Trainer was very knowledgable and easy to talk to. Went into things we didn't realise we would be covering and so glad she did as now have a great understanding of the cover \
\
\
Ingrid was a very passionate and enthusiastic trainer, she made the course interesting and easy to understand. \
I'm not an expert in cyber but have had some dealings with it and so I was able to see this course for what it was.  I was hoping that this course could be a non-biased overview of cyber covers.  Dave Hole himself was a good trainer and I appreciated his training style.  However, it was clear that Dave had little or no experience with cyber.  There was little or no awareness of market issues, covers, who even offered cyber etc.  Some statements were just incorrect:  at the outset David mentioned that all cyber polices are similar \'82\'c4\'ec this couldn\'82\'c4\'f4t be further from the truth.  There is a huge amount of variation in what the market is offering and this is a big issue (cover for PCI, triggers for BI cover and notification costs etc).  When it came to the finer details of what a cyber policy has to offer we were handed a two page document printed from Airmic\'82\'c4\'f4s website and asked to read through it.  Afterwards Dave said \'82\'c4\'faI think this sums up what a cyber policy is\'82\'c4\'f9 \'82\'c4\'ec no analysis, no discussion \'82\'c4\'ec clearly trying to mask that Dave had no experience in this type of cover.  Dave did spend a long time talking about risk management and this is clearly something that he is knowledgeable about.  However, this advice was generic and it was clear that Dave did not have any cyber risk management knowledge.  Also I\'82\'c4\'f4m not sure what wording the slides were based on but they were not but this was not representative of the market.  The course could have also easily been condensed to 2 hours, not a full day.  I did think twice about sending such critical feedback and Dave seems like a good guy.  But the CII should know that this course is a waste of time.  I am certain that most attendees would have come away with more questions than there were answered and also come away with very little understanding of cyber.  I feel frustrated, as the feedback I have had from other colleagues who have attended the Business Interruption course was fantastic and I was hoping for the same.  I was very disappointed with this course as I had been expecting much more, particularly as this insurance is about to take off in light of new EU legislation due to come in this year (again this was not raised).  If I thought it would do any good I would ask for my money back.  I will actively be recommending that people in our brokerage do not attend this course and the CII would be remiss to run this again without someone who actually knows about cyber running it.\
.\
\
Really enjoyed the day. \
Course contained very little information about the subject matter\
\
Very useful and will be sending other members of the team shortly.\
\
Chris did a great job and his coaching methods were perfect for the course. His knowledge was very good on the topics discussed. \
\
The course was really helpful, good quality of training materials and Chris was very professional.\
Chris, thank you you so much for all your help once again. You are a great trainer.\
Excellent course! Paul as great!\
Great teacher, really knowledgeable, lots of useful tips\
\
\
Extremely helpful but I wish we could have covered more (not fault of the course as we only had one day)\
\
Paul is great - very easy to understand and very approcheable\
\
\
Short time, we'd need more to see more \
\
\
\
Thanks very much Celia!\
\
All good from me.\
\
\
22/05/19 Warburton Building services Ltd\
22/05/2019 Warburtons\
\
Warburton Building Services. 22/05/19\
22ND MAY WARBURTON\
22/05/2019 Walburtons \
Overall very good course and lot has been covered, strongly recommended\
Not really a lot to comment on, given the ratings that I have given :) I really enjoyed the course a lot and found it very useful. Particularly the last 2 sessions where I got to learn new things 100% (PivotTables and Running a Macro).\
\
Useful & timesaving course,should save time in future\
Useful & timesaving course,should save time in future\
Useful & timesaving course,should save time in future\
Unfortunately so much to do in one day\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Really good day, even though I have considerable previous vba experience\
\
\
\
\
\
Mike was an excellent teacher. He taught me thing are very useful in my day to day working on and excel spreadsheet. The pivot table training is a big help.\
Training was provided in a small group, which made learning very enjoyable. \
really enjoyed the course. learnt lots of valuable info that I will be using everyday in my work. \
Great course, lots of useful knowledge taught!\
can't wait to do the advanced excel course\
Excellent course - highly recommend this. \
\
really enjoyed the course and feel like it has given me a much better understanding of the basic tools in Excel\
\
REALLY USEFULL COURSE, VERY DETAILED, MAY BE A BIT MUCH TO TAKE ON IN ONE SITTING BUT VERY INFORMATIVE.\
It was useful that we worked in the same spreadsheet and this will be a good tool to refer back to you when trying to replicate the formulas in my own work.\
\
\
\
\
would love the opportunity to attend further courses in the future.\
I am never the sort of person to give 5 stars to a training session unless it's absolutely deserved. The trainer engaged every member without fail and my confidence increased significantly by the end of the course. I feel like I'll be doing macros in no time!! \
I hope our company will role out this course to all employees as I think all staff would find this course useful and would actually speed up productivity and efficiency at work. Really enjoyed the training!\
Chris was very good and explained everything rather then just telling us how to do etc etc. \
Great course and understand the reason behind formulas\
\
Really good would like to do it again.\
Was great training and am interested in having further training. Have already fed back to the business about advanced training and about my team going on the course. \
I cannot emphasize enough how much I enjoyed this course, and I have recommended my colleagues to jump on it if the opportunity comes back around for more courses to be offered.  \
Great instructor who pitched the right content at the audience and was able to tailor his package 'on-the-fly' in order to meet individual needs.\
Great training, which was fun and enlightening  and learnt so much more about excel! thank you :-)  \
In 34 years of working and attending courses, I have never been on a course like this one that has provided me with instant improvement and relevance to the role I am doing\
I have done other excel courses before bt have struggled to see how I could use the functionality in my role, however now it is clear\
\
Great to learn new things that can help with the work load.\
Very good organised\
Hope we can have a VBA session\
\
Excellent session\
he was so professional Chris was very patient and helped me with all that I asked and answered every question and more!\
\
\
It would have been good to have the notes before the training\
\
\
\
\
Fantastic course and i have taken away skills that will help me everyday.\
Learnt a lot and cemented what little knowledge I already had\
This was superb.  An IT course with a trainer who spoke English and made a non-excel person feel welcome and encouraged.  I have taken so much away.  Thank you\
Thouroughly educational \
\
Really useful and will make huge efficiencies in terms of saving time and increasing analysis\
\
Overall really helpful course. I feel confident with the material learned and Kevin was a pleasure to learn from.  5 stars! \
Everyone Should do this\
Would love to sign up for the Advanced course when it gets organised!\
Great\
Chris was great - I learnt a lot more than expected as his training methods were fun and interactive. Thank you!\
Great course, very engaging and will serve me great in my day to day roll. \
\
Great course- thank you! \
Recommended training, good trainer and worth wile :) \
\
\
A valuable training course.\
\
\
\
\
This was a very good course. I started the day with a basic understanding of Excel and finished the day with a more advanced knowledge. Everything was shown and explained very well\
We haven't received training materias however the documents we trained on were good.\
very helpful,insightful course.which included relevant content\
Very happy with what I have learned today.  Thank you. \
We are yet to receive any training materials for the course\
\
\
\
\
\
really enjoyed the day and would consider coming back to do the advanced course when I am comfortable with the intermidiate material\
\
Excellent course - learned loads and Chris was super helpful. Would 100% recommend to other colleagues\
Good!  Would have been good to be Mac proficient (maybe that's a question that should have been asked to our HR when she booked to check)  ... \
excellent\
Great job thank you\
I found the course to be extremely worthwhile and helpful in improving my knowledge and understanding of excel functions for everyday application and practical use. \
\
\
\
more time spend on individual exercises to repeat them couple of times. \
\
\
i learned  a lot and would like to complete a day course again in the future \
Trainer was excellent.\
\
\
\
\
Highly recommended and the trainer made it easy to understand\
Thanks Chris!\
\
\
\
Great training session\
My worked booked this course for me and \\i would defiantly recommend\
\
very good ive no complaint - upto me to practice.\
\
Really enjoyed the course. Would definitely recommend and would definitely be interested in coming back for the advanced course.\
An excellent course which is taught clearly and patiently for people of all levels on a specific course\
I will be recommending to my industry. Excellent\
loved the office space and loved learning all the shortcuts, super helpful!\
\
Would have liked slightly more time spent on marcos vs the refresher stuff in the morning session but still a good start to VBA and still veyr useful to spend time going over lookup functions.\
Would have liked to have learnt a little more about macros, but I think that was more down to lack of time.  Altogethor very useful day.\
Would have preferred it to be more tailored to our work needs, but this is only down to a lack of communication beforehand. Would definitely like to continue learning from Chris.\
\
\
Chris is Straight talking, no jargon , not condescending, clear explanations, patient and understanding\
Everything was explained very clearly. There were lots of tips and tricks. Chris had great energy and patience.\
Great\
\
\
Very good course\
can't wait for the Advanced\
\
\
GREAT DAY, LEARNT A GREAT DEAL\
\
\
\
Difficult to give a view on the training materials - we haven\'82\'c4\'f4t seen them yet. Would be good to have them as we went through the course today. \
Good course overall, especially with refreshing what I already know.\
\
\
\
\
Really well structured and presented. \
\
\
my understanding of Excel is a lot clearer \
\
Really enjoyed the training\
very helpful\
Looking forward to receiving the post-training material to develop my understanding of the training delivered\
\
\
\
\
\
Great stuff, learnt lots within a small time frame.\
\
\
I would suggest a pre-course tests simply to enable employees to identify their levels easier and select the right training. \
\
\
not yet reviewed material\
I really enjoyed the content of the course including the programming.\
Great course, really enjoyed! \
\
\
\
Chris is an amazing trainer and ensured that we left with lots of knowledge relating to the topic. Would highly recommend.\
Very Good, extremely helpfull\
\
Very good course, look forward to attending advanced level.\
3 on the basis no materials supplied yet however content to exact level expected\
Well prepared and well articulated. I feel Chris gave the course the right amount of time to each area. In particular, I really liked Chris's teaching style, a good mixture of discussion and application. Thanks so much!\
\
\
\
\
\
\
thank you \
\
I've found that  the tutor Chris is very welcoming, friendly, encouraging and very practical. I would recommend to everyone. \
I thoroughly enjoyed Chris' course.  It was pitched at just the right level.  I would thoroughly recommend the course to friends and colleagues.\
Great experience in this L1 course, will be coming back from L2. \
I am such a happy bunny! I actually cannot wait to go back to work and put all I have learned into practice!  and I would really love to come back and do the advanced course\
was a thoroughly enjoyable day, I have really enjoyed the experience and have learnt so much.  Chris was fantastic and I will definitely be coming back to do an advanced course. \
Excellent course, excellent trainer.\
I'll be practicing and be back for the advanced course!\
\
brilliant, enjoyed today learning . lots to remember \
joining instructions came out v small!! \
\
\
\
very helpful person and polite. \
\
I did enjoy the course very interesting and I learnt a lot of things which I never knew I could do in excel\
\
Interactive and engaging\
Fantastic course - really has helped my with my day to day work.. Loved the way it was easily explained to me and looking forward to putting it in practice!\
Enjoyable course - time flew! Lots of useful shortcuts and tricks to make day to day life with Excel much easier.\
Great stuff!\
Perfect for the level of experience in the team, helped those who needed it at the right time. No one left behind.\
It's great to work on the excel spreadsheet and to keep it at the end. I will always use it as a reference when applying what I've learnt to the business. \
Many helpful tips\
Thank you Paul for sharing your excel knowledge today. They say you learn something new everyday, and I can definitely take home a fair few things today. The odd jokes here and there made it very comfortable and not feel stupid if I wasn't familiar in a particular area! Would definitely recommend!\
Thank you Paul for making it an enjoyable experience today.\
\
Paul was enthusiastic and answered all of our questions efficiently and with humour.\
Was good to have little exercises to practise on after each explanation. \
Again it was a good course \
Good course would help if it had more tests to complete ( I guess more time needed )\
\
I really enjoyed this course, I made me think out of the box and I have already new ideas how to improve my spreadsheet reports. Many thanks \
Some training material added so not in our workbook, would have been good to have it\
Started using the tips and tricks and already saving me time.\
\
\
Not as good as the first session in terms of materials\
\
Very strong knowledge shown by the the trainer. Really enjoyable\
To really get the best out of the course - it would be better to attend both part 1 and part 2.  To just attend part 2, puts you on the back foot a bit.  \
\
slightly fast when running through the if statements\
\
\
Mix-up with training with our HR did not help so trainier had to adapt on the day.\
Learnt  good stuff . Thank you \
Paul was witty, understanding and friendly. He was able to tell how the class was feeling and reacted accordingly.\
very nice and friendly trainer\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent and interesting :-) Thankyou!\
\
\
\
I felt like the initial start was slow, most likely due to my knowledge of Excel.  Once we got into the action queries, forms and reports however the possibilities of access became more apparent and by the end I am already planning on multiple uses.  this has been an incredible insight / lesson and has actually encouraged me to learn more about access.\
Really happy with how the course went; looking forward to implementing Access within my day to day role.\
I now have a better understanding of the subject and it will impact and improve my day to day work\
I would have liked a written formula for each new concept to help me follow. Maybe a 2nd trainer to come around and help\
\
\
\
Covered the objectives stated and some additional questions that we had \
Intereacted well with the with the team to ensure teaching the right content  \
\
really good - have learnt a lot\
Great session right amount of time - small session meant we all got the attention we needed.  Fits with requirements and what we use on a day to day basis.\
\
.\
Great course, really enjoyed it, would highly recommend it!\
\
\
Trainer Understands Excel Extremely well, and could answer every question thrown at her Almost instantly. thoroughly enjoyed the course and would happily do it again to go over things I may have skipped over as I wasn't sure. \
LOOKING FORWARD TO APPLY WHAT I HAVE BEEN TOUGHT. IT IS AN AMAZING COURSE THAT HELPS PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND MAKES DALY WORK A LOT EASIER!\
good training again very helpful thank you\
\
\
\
\
Great all round.   Highly recommended.\
overall very good.\
Booking process was completed by someone else\
\
Really liked Kevin's approach to teaching, he wasn't intimidating so made it easy to pick things up and was very detailed in what he was teaching us.\
No additional comments - really enjoyable and will remember the stuff I have learned! :-)\
\
overall found training really beneficial\
\
\
\
Very helpful instructor, showing me ways of doing things ive never been shown on other excel courses that benefitted me massively. cant Thank her enough. \
Very good course, great teacher for making you understanding excel\
Very good course, great teacher for making you understanding excel\
Very Imformative, great course.  Amazing teacher\
very good\
liked the hands on approch\
\
NO HANDOUT OF TRAINING MATERIAL PRE TRAINING, HOWEEVR THIS COULD BE DUE TO SHORT NOTICE OF COURSE FROM DATE OF BOOKING\
We did not yet receive the training materials. Therefore, could not give full points\
the training materials in advance would have been useful\
\
\
A great course! Well need and it was delivered at a great pace with lots of practical examples. \
This course was really useful to me and I would definitely recommend it. I have used excel a lot in the past but have not used a lot of the functions for a while. The course was a good opportunity to refresh my memory and I also learned new functions I have not been familiar with before. \
\
\
\
\
\
Very good focus on useful tools. Changed my approach to excel\
\
Learned a lot very flexible. \
Really interesting, really helpful, learnt loads of shortcuts which will save me time.\
IT WAS SLIGHTLY TOO FAST FOR ME BECAUSE THERE WAS A LOT OF INFORMATION TO TAKE IN. I WOULD SUGGEST DOING OVER A LONGER PERIOD OF TIME\
I think the course was great and the trainer adapted to the levels of the skills in the group, providing enough depth, without overwhelming.\
Kevin was a fab trainer and kept the subject matter as interesting and entertaining as possible.  Well done Kevin!\
Kevin has exceptional knowledge of his field and conveys his expertise in an easy to understand and enjoyable manner\
\
Kevin was superb. Very helpful, informative and nice. \
\
\
\
\
\
I gained knowledge from the cource\
The course was very well presented and the trainer ( Chris ) had a wide knowledge of the subject.\
I really enjoyed the course and I leave today with an better understanding of using excel.\
Very useful, thank you\
Looking forward to receiving the crib sheets\
\
\
A GREAT COURSE , CHRIC WAS EXCELLENT \
\
The course was brilliant. Chris was so knowledge and approachable and really made the course interesting.\
\
very well explained \
Ejoyed my course a lot \
\
The trainer Chris was very helpfull &  was not shy in offering support where required , a very good approach that did not leave you feeling nervous when needing to ask for support. would recomend to my freinds & collegues \
very excellent course and  trainer was very supportive and have good knowledge of excel  Syed Aziz \
I think the content and training materials were great, I just would have liked more of these. A few more examples of each skills would have further solidified what we learnt. \
Found Chris to be very enthusiastic and passionate. He also had some good short cuts for using Excel on a daily basis.\
very good course well lay out and informative\
\
very good made interesting which helps to learn\
Chris is a very good trainer, he is a subject matter expert and the course benefited all of us. Look forward to attending level 2 and 3 in the near future.\
\
\
The facilities were excellent and all of the staff really helpful and cheerful.\
Best course, learnt so many awesome new skills that i will take with me.\
Really enjoyed - right level of geekyness and good banter with the participants\
very helpful and kevin answered all our questions.\
\
Best course, learnt so many awesome new skills that i will take with me.\
I did one to one session which allowed me to learn more in shorter time and in depth as I got the feedback and a guidance on each task straight away\
Excellent training provided\
Course is very good and I am taking away some useful information, just need to practice at using the information learnt.\
Great course.\
Theory, exercise content explained so easy to understand.\
\
\
\
Excellent training course, interactive and hands on, trainer was excellent.\
Well presented, good pace for the group\
\
\
Excellent training\
Amazing course, feel like I am so much more confident on the subjects I wanted to brush up on, and learnt so many new things! Chris was really great and patient with us, and gave us lots of help. Overall a great experience. Thank you!\
\
\
clear and concise\
\
Thank you very much!\
A bit inconvenient entry to the building. However, generally very well presented  thank you \
Good training session, led on well from Intermediate course. Slicers and Macro into very helpful\
Kevin is a fantastic trainer.   If there were any questions his knowledge and ability to help with problem solving is brilliant!   Thanks Kevin!!!\
Brilliant tutor, looking forward to receiving the spread to review when I get home!\
\
\
Very good and well delivered course.\
\
very effective course \
\
\
I enjoyed the course and feel like I have now sufficiently enhanced my knowledge that will enable me to complete my work more efficiently and accurately.  \
Perhaps re phrase the double negative question. \
\
\
Chris is a really good trainer, great at catering for mixed levels and abilities and not patronising\
\
\
\
\
Great Course\
Learn about pivots. \
\
Thanks for the help and excellent course\
One of the best trainers . Congrats ! \
One of the best trainers . Congrats ! \
I think this was great and it really well covered all the basics, I would love to have another one or two training to be able to move forward with my knowledge and learn more about excel levels 2/3 and slightly harder tasks on the document.  \
brilliant - very instructive and pleasant\
\
\
\
Wanted to understand about pivot tables but didn't cover this in this course\
Chris is a fantastic trainer who is able to communicate in a very clear and engaging way. This is by far some of the BEST training I have ever had in the 12 years with my company. Would defo recommend to other managers!!!! \
excellent\
excellent\
Really enjoyed the training and at first i thought it was too basic for my needs, but Celia went into more depth and checked with the group if they needed anymore items covered. i look forward to using my new skills during work.\
Eye opening.  Thank you Celia.\
\
Comments as above\
\
Very good course\
\
\
\
\
looking forward to part two!\
\
very helpful \
Enjoyed the half day session - learnt lots of shortcuts and better understanding of formulas.\
\
Great session\
Very good course, excellent content and pace.  \
\
\
Would be great to have a hand out and examples to take away\
\
excellent content, great delivery - repetitive enough to make the skills stick but not to become too much. \
still waiting for that pen\
I am confident that things I've learned on this course are things I can actually use in my everyday work.\
First class. Very easy style of presentation\
\
\
Chris is very engaging and is very informative the way he teaches you allows you to learn easily\
\
REALLY ENJOYED THE COURSE AND HAVE LEARNT A LOT OF NEW THINGS.\
\
\
as above I have learned some really handy tips to let me get more out of using excel\
\
\
\
Learned a lot of basic things properly that i only half knew how to do\
Was fully explained in detail and enjoyed learning this course - will certainly assist in my day to day work\
Very Useful\
\
N/A\
I will definately use the information learned on this course to assist with work\
\
\
Would highly recommend anyone looking to learn new skills in Excel to highly consider this course\
\
I enjoyed this training\
\
\
\
\
Courses invoke visions of long drawn out discussions on information that most of the attendees know, this was anything but, highly engaging and challenging. Great course leadership. \
Great trainer, good explanations & positive guidance,\
All extra comments are entered above. \
\
Taking back to basics to use as a platform to build on with the more complex factors\
\
\
Brilliant trainer\
\
\
good course, thank you \
learning was great, learned a few extra bits.  My needs are still a higher level.\
very happy with the course \
very happy with the course \
great knowledge\
\
\
Would love to have more time to continue, but understand that there is a lot of material to cover.  Very impressed with course and the trainers approach to things\
another great course. would love to do level 3 to learn more\
Very well presented and extremely helpful. I have learnt a lot from this course and it was made very easy to understand and to remember.\
\
\
\
Really enjoyed the Training and would like to do the advanced level in the future\
Good clear instructions and communication.\
\
perfect class as always very good tutor with great ideas and skills to enhance our excel ability \
\
very good \
very friendly and helpful trainer \
Enjoyed the course - it has certainly given me a lot on information and will definitely help me in my job function.\
\
\
\
Very good training. informative and learnt more than expected.\
Brilliant course\
Very Good\
\
One of the best trainers that we had \
Learned a lot of transferable info to my job\
very patient and skilful \
Really good course with helpful trainer \
I really enjoyed the course and it was easy to follow and learn from \
Would love to continue with advanced course if possible\
So far I have learnt a lot and have found it extremely useful and interesting!\
Really good course. interactive learning is KEY\
\
\
The trainer has been extremely useful and has explained everything in a very understanding way. Definitely learnt a lot! :) \
\
Good course, went a bit quick. Could of learned a lot more different functions maybe.\
\
chris was very helpful and made me feel comftable whilst learning would recommend him to anyone who needs excel training. :) \
great course, very useful and very valid\
\
Very helpful for all abilities \
\
looking forward for the second part and L3 \
lot of content in a short period\
I am keen to attend the second part but need to check with my manager as I am at another site.\
\
Chris is a fantastic teacher and covers a great amount of course material in a way understandable to everyone. I highly recommend this course for all, whether you are a beginner or an advanced sser. I Have now completed the beginner and intermediate course and will definitely be back for the advanced course. Before completing the We Are Excell Courses I would have considered myself a novice and now feel I am almost at an advanced level.\
pass cards should allow entry to work rooms and expire at COB\
\
\
I found this course really helpful and I am definitely more confident in using certain function,\
Chris was a good tutor and i learned a lot.\
Kevin was very good , explained all exercises extremely well \
Very clear instructions, good pace of course.\
\
Very clear instructions, good pace of course.\
\
Great teacher and I definitely developed my Excel skills during this session\
trainer was open and helpful when we got stuck! the training was an eye-opener to me as I wasn't confident when I first started, but this changed swiftly\
Learned a lot and well taught.\
\
Impressed with this initial training\
\
\
\
\
\
Great course, thanks Chris!\
\
Highly recommend Kevin & this course. Highly professional and fun. He has a great understanding of Excel & subject matter and is a fantastic teacher. 10/10 & I will be back for more courses.\
very professional and friendly \
Environment was great to work in. Free refreshments a real plus .Appreciate that the Air con control out of your hands but did get quite warm.\
The course was very helpful to assist with short cuts and formulas.\
\
I would have liked some more advanced things, however I see that this isn't what this course was meant for and is only for the basics. This wouldn't have been a problem for others on the course.\
Chris was an engaging teacher who included everyone in the group and made sure we worked at the right pace for our abilities. He was really friendly and personable.\
Chris was a very friendly and patient trainer, I learnt a lot of skills that are relevant to my role. the training was very useful and it would recommend Chris to anyone. \
\
I would be interested in further improving my ability at using VBA and creating macros, so would be interested in taking the additional course specifically related to that.\
Very good and would recommend to anyone wanting to know more about the advertised content. Only marked 3 stars on the new skills / knowledge question as I knew some stuff already, and there was some content that was covered in the intermediate course that we did before this too. (I understand it was for the benefit of those who weren't in the course before / had forgotten it all). \
The start was quite slow/re-doing things that had been learnt in intermediate. Would've been good to move onto macros and coding earlier and do more in depth on that. Chris was a very good teacher, articulate and helpful and went at a steady pace. \
Having already don't the intermediate course with Chris, I felt that we spent a bit too much time refreshing and going over the same content as the previous course. The content would have been ideal had I not already done the intermediate course\
\
All easy to use, one thing i did find annoying was some cells had comments in this made it difficult to read and complete the required formula at the same time - would have been nice if they were a separate box.\
Good trainer, good course, would defo recommend, very knowledgeable and very clear in the way he explained it.\
Possibly could have gone a bit faster to cover more topics, but no complaints\
very good\
\
\
I learned tools that I will use for the rest of my career\
\
This course is very good for getting a better grasp of Excel and a good start for beginners.\
Well organised, Learnt a lot, would highly recommend \
Good introduction to Excel \
Very good training and new skills have been learnt which I look forward to putting into practice.\
\
Enjoyable and useful day.\
Chris is a lovely guy. It was great that he was able to come to my home rather than me having to go somewhere! He knows his stuff and is very articulate, patient and good at explaining things.\
Booker got my name and company name wrong at the start but managed to fix in the end. \
Very good and enthusiastic trainer who helped with anything that I required assistance with. \
A course that was ideal for my needs as a complete EXCEL beginner.\
\
\
great course. thank yoy\
Great Course, if you give details on what level you are on and possibly spreadsheets/documents that you are using, the tutor will guide the course towards your needs\
\
\
\
Course was useful, however I was expecting slightly more in depth coverage of the course material. What was covered was good for a one day course, though not quite enough for a two day course.   Saying that, the workshop style session on the second day where I could bring actual questions relevant to my work was useful to troubleshoot together\
There were some contents of the course that was advance for my understanding but I still went away with a better understanding of Excel, so much so that I would like to review the course again, more at a beginners level in order to undertake a slower pace,  The course has given me a greater appetite to learn more about Excel as I can see there is so much more that I can benefit from this experience and knowledge, in order to apply the knowledge learnt on a day to day basis in my billing role.\
I have rated all to five stars because it really fulfilled my targets. The trainer is really experienced and shared his expertise with us in such short period of time. His understanding of excel is super. All questions answered and he showed that he knows what he is doing. The pace of the training it was ideal specially for me that had very limited skills on excel. I liked it very much that I wish to continue training excel with his company at Aldgate to increase my knowledge. \
\
\
\
Highly recommend, learnt lots and actually enjoyed it! \
Looking forward to booking the next level excel course with Chris he explained everything in a way everyone could understand\
\
I have come away with better understanding on how to use Excel. \
\
would happily attend another course, thank you\
\
overall pleasant day \
\
I would have enjoyed more practical examples on certain subjects.\
\
Enjoyable & informative\
Enjoyable & informative\
\
\
Great course well tailored to the Group's needs, clear explanations and exercises to practise\
\
Amazing. Was actually surprised at how well it went. Chris did great.  \
\
I really liked this course because I was not very knowledgeable about excel but I am not sure it was advanced enough for some of my coworkers. The teacher did his best to cater to all our levels. \
Chris was very engaging and had an answer for any of my questions.\
Great teacher and instructor\
\
\
\
\
Highly recommended course - trainer was very patient, clear, and ensured practice of each topic covered.\
Enjoyed the course!\
very well organised and lovely stuff.\
\
As stated above fantastic value and taught at a rate to suit all abilities\
Please see my comments above - A very useful and enjoyable course.\
 Has been a productive day :) Thank you for a nice day.\
Everything was well planned out! Would have preferred if the teacher went into more depth and more complicated question and tasks. \
\
\
\
Chris was great today. Helped me as I am relatively new to using Excel and went straight into a harder course. \
\
again very helpful and would highly recommend\
Thank you very much - this has been really helpful.\
\
\
\
great introduction to VBA, I now have a better understanding of it and hopefully the codes in our existing Macros will not be so scary when it comes to debugging\
\
Very clear and concise presenter\
The Excel hacks were brilliant. \
Today was really helpful, considering that I knew a lot of excel already it was great to learn 'best practice' and what I have been doing in a long format or way. Also explained many times I have had to deal with messed up values and spreadsheets and how to avoid this. Chris went at a great pace which enabled me to make my own notes and keep handy for the future when I need to refer back to it. \
Thank you so much for all the help and knowledge you gave us today. I've come away with loads of shortcuts which will make my analysing tasks so much quicker and less frustrating \
\
Extremely happy with the resources provided and the hands-on means of implementing knowledge. I look forward to receiving the supporting resources to help keep the tips and tricks refreshed after I leave today.\
I would like to attend a second advanced training workshop sometime.\
\
COVERED A WIDE RANGE OF ABILITY IN SHORT SPACE OF TIME. APPRECIATE THE FLEXIBILITY IN DOING SO\
\
\
\
\
Chris explained functions of excel in a very easy and accessible way. I learnt very useful shortcuts and formulas that I had never known existed. \
\
Chris knew the answer to the vast majority of questions asked of him in today's course; if he was not certain, he was more than happy to look into finding the answer for us.  A number of topics which may have proved useful were held back for the Advanced course, but that may be for the best given that everything that was covered could be done so in sufficient detail in the time allowed.  I believe Pivot tables in particular should prove useful for me in my work in the near future, so appreciated learning about them in depth.\
I learnt as much as I'd have hoped for a one day course and enjoyed it much more than I expected. The course went at a good pace.\
I thought Chris was very engaging. He helped to develop some of my existing skills as well as pointing out some useful shortcuts which will speed up my work. Pivot tables are new to me and he explained their use and how to make the most of them well\
Would definitely recommend to others as it was a very fun and informative day.\
I've been meaning to do a course such as this for a long time but I feared some of the stuff may be beyond me. I also thought it would be boring. Chris was magnificent at making everyone feel at ease and comfortable with what they were doing, and we all had a good laugh along the way\
\
was excellent, thanks\
A very enjoyable course and instructor for what could very easily be a boring topic. \
\
\
Thank you to Chris for making the excel training a valuable experience and being extremely helpful and approachable!!\
The only issue was with the  screen used by Chris, it was sometimes not working \
I wish our offices were like yours!\
It would have been useful to have more practice sessions, but I guess we had so many questions and topics to cover, there wasn't enough time. Great to know that we can ask for help afterwards!!!\
\
Enjoyed the course and have found it very useful.\
Really enjoyed the course - thank you \
\
\
Very good dat\
\
\
Very happy with the teaching, very interactive and helpful.  Unfortunately, the breadth wasn't ideal givenmy starting base but was very helpful and willing to talk through other topics that were not part of the official course\
This was an excellent course and I would recommend it to others\
Great session again, recently attended the intermediate course and this, alongside todays advanced session has really given me the confidence to take my skills to the next level in the work place. Great trainer, great material and really detailed!\
\
Gave us what we needed to experiment and look at our current processes to see what we could use macros for.\
\
\
Thank you very much :)\
best course i have attended\
The course was very informative and lived up to expectations.     \
One of the best courses i've been on - really enjoyed it! Really looking forward to the advanced course next week\
\
good training session\
\
Learned a k lot and solved my issues\
\
Really impressive training in a great workspace with a fun trainer. Day flew by. \
Kevin was so fab! Made it so interesting and engaging \
\
\
Some of the middle session materials was taken too quickly for me to grasp. This was not the case with the later sessions.\
\
\
\
\
Overall Good\
made to feel comfortable and put to ease as nervous and shy helped if didn't understand went at a comfortable pace would highly recommend enjoyed more than I thought\
Good\
This course will help me in scheduling and formatting work which will help our presentation of documents to all parties. \
\
\
\
\
Great course and very informative.\
I would have liked to see some more complex functions and examples of what the full capability of the power pivot tool\
\
\
\
\
\
\
this was a good course that was very enjoyable and has opened up a world of possibilities\
Brilliant Lessons from a Excellent Teacher. Thoroughly Enjoyed the course.\
this could be a heavy subject but Chris kept our interest and attention, he allowed us to interact and ask questions whilst still achieving our objectives for the day and getting through the syllabus \
The above will increase tomorrow once we have covered more material\
\
\
Kevin was very polite and helpful, especially if you didn't grasp what to do straight away.\
enjoyable session \
\
Very good indeed.\
\
\
Thank you so much for helping to improve my IT skills. The course was fun and informativeNo. Thanks millions. \
\
Course material was relatable to real life situations, formats were familiar.\
Very informative - many thanks \
Great teacher - very helpful \
very good course.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Good course lots of material to learn from and expand \
Chris is a very engaging teacher and knows a lot about excel. Any question I had was answered with good explanations and examples of how to resolve \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Great course\
Thanks, was very helpful. \
Very happy with the course will ask for the next level to be done for the \
Excellent training course, knowledgeable trainer\
Excellent course and well  explained.\
Lot of information in a short time, would like longer to consolidate and build on what learnt.  Trainer extremely knowledgeable - able to answer all questions at various levels\
OVERALL THE COURSE WAS VERY USEFULL AND REALLY ENJOYED LEARNING EXCEL.\
It was very useful! Many thanks for that! \
\
\
Very useful training. A lot to take in. Over two Days with more [practice session would be a dream.\
I thoroughly enjoyed today.  Small class and teaching pace was perfect\
Great course, just need to bring along a spreadsheet that I need to use in the real world perhaps\
\
\
Really good course, I learnt a lot and would highly recommend. Only thing I would change is that we went a little bit fast at times!\
I'm glad we were in a small group (3). I think it meant we all got a good amount of help and support as well as keeping the pace moving.\
Chris clearly knew his subject matter very well.  He was also able to answer questions about how the particular skills we were learning linked to other aspects of Excel functionality.  He was helpful to all the class, helping us individually when we got stuck with something and always being encouraging.  The material was also very good, enabling us to build on new skills step by step and not too daunting.     \
the provision of write material is very helpful \
It would be good to have the course material to hand on the day in order to make my own notes on them, thereby keeping everything together.\
\
\
\
A very helpful and frinedly tutor, who gave good attention to each of the trainees, and helpfully dealing with any problems or questions they had\
A very helpful and frinedly tutor, who gave good attention to each of the trainees, and helpfully dealing with any problems or questions they had\
Covered all of the basics and a good amount of time was speant on each topic\
Chris is friendly and kind. Happy to answer any questions and not put you down when you gave a wrong answer. \
\
\
\
The provided material was and is useful. I enriched it with my own comments afterwards so maybe lines on the side for comments might be useful. Also the Tracking topic was not included in the booklet so I either missed it or it would be worth to be added as it was covered during the session.\
Celia was a fabulous teacher, we all really enjoyed her teaching style and found her incredibly easy to talk to.  We also had the right amount of people in the training and communicated openly with each other.  Celia was extremely supportive and was completely honest when she did not know the answer off the top of her head.  I felt she met the criteria of what we wanted to achieve for the day. \
The course was hands on and very informative. Cecilia was flexible in her method of teaching and was able to answer the majority of your questions (some were outside the scope of the training). I thoroughly enjoyed the session and can't wait to put it into practice\
Excellent trainer! Incredibly engaging and easy to listen to (despite being on a Friday). I will certainly recommend.\
Very helpful  course with a helpful instructor.\
\
very impressed \
\
\
\
Very in depth with lots of questions answered and support. Laid back style so more practice when needed can be done and Chris didn't leave anyone behind, everyone was on the same page before we moved on to the next topic.\
\
\
\
A very concise training course delivered in an easy to understand format.\
Really enjoyed the course and feel more comfortable in the subject. Now I need to process and remember it. \
Chris is a great trainer who kept the course interesting\
\
Really enjoyed the course, good level for someone who uses excel at a basic level.\
\
Good, thorough course, very useful\
Really ejoyed the course, looking forward to putting it into practice. Thanks, Chris \
Chris was very attentive and willing to help when needed. Very hands on and made it fun while learning. Very passionate for what he does and makes the rest of the group feel the same.\
Chris was great! \
I thought it was a great course. \
Got extra help after the session so more than happy.\
Good course covering key aspects.   \
\
\
\
\
\
The advanced Excel course was extremely helpful in expanding my knowledge of the functionality of Excel and showing what the possibilities of its use could extend to. Chris was very helpful and knowledgable in explaining the concepts.\
Chris was extremely knowledgeable and was very good at explaining things, he took time to ensure each member of the group understood the learning outcome before moving on to the next stage. I found this course very helpful. \
It's difficult to pitch the course at the right level with so people's varying ability levels, as such pacing was a bit. Otherwise all good.\
\
\
\
An enjoyable session, where the whole team has gained a great understanding of the items covered. The trainer made it easy to understand. Great training! \
The trainer is fantastic. He knows how to deliver the subject matter with proper examples. He is practical and well experienced. Thoroughly enjoyed the training today! Thank you very much. \
An excellent additional knowledge and skills\
I would have rated this a 10 but I'm one of those people that never give a 10 for anything.  Top notch trainer in Chris teaching a course that he's massively familiar with and passes over a passion for data manipulation over to the students.  Brilliant.\
Overall a day well spent in learning new set of skills and looking forward for more of such training programmes.\
\
\
\
A day of revelations! So many shortcuts, trick and tips learned that will make my day to day use of Excel more efficient. Excellent presentation style and delivery, engaging and attentive. Thanks you Chris.\
Great day course and taught a lot of useful skills. Even though i had used many of the equations before i still got a lot out of the course. The trainer was great and really knowledgeable and gave lots of examples when the skills learnt could be used in the daily job. Thank you. \
This was my favourite training I have ever had in the work place. Thoroughly enjoyed it. \
\
\
\
Thank you very much for the training. I really enjoyed it as it was conducted in good tempo, interactive and energetic way.\
Chris has made our lesson enjoyable and difficult topics easy to understand\
It is good to keep on repeating the function and how you do pivot table because the more i repeat, the more i understand it better.\
\
\
Very many thanks for an enjoyable course which made me concentrate.\
The course was a little slow. For the amount of time we had to dedicate I wish I had learned more. \
\
The course has given me ideas on areas of my work  where I can experiment with what I learnt, and believe that practice will make perfect..\
\
\
Perfect way to understand the course, would definitely recommend to a work colleague.  Looking to progress on the advanced Excel course  Made things easier to understand when, as I work with excel all the time at work\
Excellent lesson really informative.\
\
\
\
\
maybe spread it over 3 days to allow for practical work\
Trainer Kevin was brilliant, he is so enthusiastic and no question is ever too much. Great course.\
Trainer Kevin was brilliant, he is so enthusiastic and no question is ever too much. Great course.\
again- Kevin was amazing and really patient \
Really good session and Kevin did a cracking job. The only additional thing i'd include is a bit more personalised materials to follow up with to put learnings into relevant practice ASAP\
Really good day, learned a lot and we were shown at a speed that everyone seemed able to follow and allowed us to take a lot in. Being able to do it as we were shown was great!\
As long as the follow up information sheet has the shortcuts and exercises therein we will be on a winner\
Incredible knowledge for Kevin\
Not everything was directly linked to our roles. Over 50% of the room use specific elements of ExCel and these aspects were not covered/provided to the trainer ahead of time so material could be more case-specific. \
\
Kevin was great, kept everyone focused during a long time period and made it really interesting.\
\
VERY USEFUL\
Everything was explained well and helped me understand everything. \
\
\
Great resources and trainer, look forward to advanced course!\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Looking forward to start using my new knowledge!  \
Great course with real adaptability to our business needs, covered a lot of important topics in good detail in a short period of time.\
-\
\
Chris was great today. He was very clear in everything that he explained, kept it very interesting, provided very useful exercises to practice what we had just learned, was open to questions, and provided very useful handouts. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
Great trainer, really interesting topics. Well paced, flexible but a clearer topic structure/checklist to progress through the day would have been nice.\
\
\
\
A handout with all the functions we went through and other useful tips would be great.\
Paul was great, he was very responsive to our particular requests and followed the pace that we set! \
\
\
Chris was extremely knowledgeable and helpful with any questions I had. He covered all the objectives and explained everything in detail.\
Compelling and insightful, the course offered a new insight into the Excel tool in a easy to understand and comprehensive way.\
Very good course for consolidating knowledge and also learning new things, worked well for people at different learning stages. Would recommend! \
Thank you very much\
Very helpful course with a very good trainer.\
very useful course. look forward to the advanced\
Good course.\
Really great trainer who was helpful and knowledgeable. He made you feel comfortable regardless of your level and was patient and good at explaining. \
\
Would definitely like to take a follow up course for more advanced skills in the future. \
\
Extensive coverage of key skills in Excel. Incredibly well presented and in a user-friendly format. Very clearly presented and taught. \
\
Really enjoyed the day, lots of useful tips moving forward with Excel\
\
Would recommend to everyone that uses Excel on a day to day basis. So many keyboard and general short cuts that save so much time!\
\
Chris was a great enthusiastic trainer and always open to help. It has helped me freshen up and learn new quicker shortcuts in Excel!\
\
An extremely useful course.\
\
Chris has been recommended by others, \
\
\
very goo course. trainer has good knowledge of what we need.  I had the impression that there will be more VBA which would have been useful to me, however I did learn some useful tricks and shortcuts.\
I expected today to be extremely difficult, but Chris' approach ensured that I understood what was being taught and how to logically apply to my everyday work. \
\
Been on all the other training course. Again very good course and fulfilled objectives\
Very good course that was taught at a pace I could understand and in a small group format which gave everyone enough time to ask questions.\
\
\
Now more comfortable using Excel and look forward to the upcoming courses to expand my knowledge further. \
Really good, useful and pitched at the right level for beginners. \
The course was easy to book and the We Are Excel team were very accommodating, even changing the course date at the last  minute due to one of the delegates double booking!  Chris (trainer) has a really personable approach. I felt like I could ask any questions, however basic!  Chris was also able to help me with some working examples that went a bit off topic, which I really appreciated. Clearly enjoys what he does which always makes a great trainer!\
I think that this was a really good course. I would have liked the same amount of time spent on macros as we spent on index and match functions. But other than that it was a great course and a great trainer.\
Really enjpyed todays training, will take a lot from today and improve our MI considerably and make it far more efficient.\
Too slow a pace and for an advanced course, was fairly bogged down in the basics - intermediate level.\
\
Seemed to overlap with intermediate course quite a bit. Other than that it was really helpful\
Would recommend all levels of training to the company, can improve procedural efficiency with good spreadsheet knowledge.\
Approachable team. Lovely surroundings. I really enjoyed the fact that it was very small.\
\
very good course, motivating teacher. \
Really useful shortcuts and techniques to save time at work, especially with formulas. I was having problems with formulas, but now as I have learnt it, it makes my life so much easier. \
Really well designed course - potentially too simple for our group but it was the introductory course and I feel we all have been given a great foundation for the intermediate. Chris did a good job of giving us more of a challenge by taking into consideration the ability level of our group and this really helped with making the course interesting, especially considering it was only the level one course which could be considered difficult to make more interesting as it is only the basics.  Very impressed and looking forward to Level 2 - well done!\
It was really informative and would definitely think of booking the intermediate course next\
Looking forward to intermediate course\
Overall an excellent experience \
\
\
Both Chris and Paul were great. It's harder having someone who is significantly weaker as part of the group and this did take quite a lot of time but both trainers were excellent at handling this. Perhaps a quiz to ensure everyone is at an appropriate level? \
\
\
Excellent course.\
VERY WELL PRESENTED COURSE, LOOKING FORWARD TO THE POSSIBILITY OF LEARNING MORE.\
\
\
\
\
It was a really productive day and i feel like i have learnt the basics , would now like to go onto level 2. I took a while for someone to come and collect me from the canteen downstairs i ended up missing 15 mins. \
\
\
Would like to do another course\
I came in with a very basic understanding of Excel, but left with a sound knowledge of how to navigate the software, create graphs, formulas etc. I'd now be confident if a basic Excel test came up in a future job interview.\
\
\
\
\
Great trainer\
Good course, good trainer - would certainly recommend it. \
Was a really useful course it was clear, concise and simple to understand to learn. \
This pace and content of the course was great as it allowed for the information to be taught, practiced and retained. I learned a lot from today's course and understand completely how to do various tasks in excel that I previously didn't have a great understanding of.\
No complaints at all. A very helpful course\
I have now taken the Introduction and Intermediate courses and I feel I am a lot more equipped with Excel knowledge. I have learned all that I have set out to and I look forward to going beyond with the Advanced course.\
useful for the industry and Chris was supportive in helping and giving tips\
\
As explained, the course was too basic.  We have sent feedback to our own HR dept and requested we could have amore advanced course.\
I did feel I learnt a lot, however could do with some additional, more in-depth training which is more specific to my needs rather than a general overview\
The course was great, however I would have liked a course more suited to my teams requirements, more worksheets and formula work would have been better suited.  I feel I still have a lot more to learn.\
Excellent course. Recommending it to anyone who also wants to learn VBA. Chris is a natural teacher and very friendly. Empowering!\
An excellent course! Chris is a natural teacher and thoroughly nice person! He taught us the key concepts of Excel VBA striking a good balance between explanation and hands-on practice. We are eager to go forth and put these concepts into practice to streamline our work!\
Very good, understandable and help available and given when needed.   Course materials very good especially the spreadsheets showing formulae used throughout the day. \
Enjoyed the course material, looking forward to putting it into practice \
Very happy with the pace and not feeling overwhelmed.\
\
Personally I had received excellent information via very easy to understand teaching format. Chris assisted me personally with work book and completed whilst he was present in branch. Had issue with a sum so Chris requested I send him work book and would look at it for me and send back next work day\
The course was explained very well and the basic training given will certainly assist when using Excel in the future\
really good\
Would highly recommend this course, there is A LOT to take on board - but very nice teachers and a lot of extremely useful real life work! \
Chris and Kevin were great speakers and tutors, I\'82\'c4\'f4ve come away with a new set of skills and my self taught skills reinforced, thank you! \
Kevin was an excellent facilitator and was able to communicate the content effectively\
Brilliant! Kevin was enthusiastic, and communicated the material superbly. I have been well equipped in excel, and look forward to applying my new found knowledge in the months to come.\
helpful examples to become more efficient\
Kevin was very supportive and took time to answer individual questions.  Explained everything really clearly and at a pace suitable for the group\
\
Thanks!\
\
Thank you, I enjoyed the course.\
Fantastic! This should be a company wide course. Thank you\
\
Chris taught very well and targeted the course to the group's needs perfectly\
\
\
\
\
Very passionate teacher, taught a difficult subject in an engaging manner.   Potential for a refresher course and without frequent working examples, potential to forget all that was taught.\
\
\
Thoroughly enjoyable course, helping to understand the fundamentals of intermediate excel. Looking forward to the Advanced course.\
Found the course very helpful and successfully taught me what I needed to know \
Truly enjoyed my learning experience . Keep it up good work standars. wish you all good luck \
As mentioned above, I have new tricks I can take away and make life easier when using excel and can avoid having to search online for this information. I thoroughly enjoyed how interactive the course was and how it avoided a show and tell process.\
Needed update to current skills & this did the job. \
Learnt exactly what I came on the course to learn, covering the basics of Excel and learning quick keys and formulas I didn't know of before. I feel this has set me up well for more advanced Excel courses.\
\
\
Great course, great trainer with a very professional and attentive attitude towards training. \
This has been the best Excel course I have been on, I feel that I have learnt things that I can actually use in my work. The fact that we used spreadsheets that has been pulled from our systems to do things we need to do in the future really helps.  \
\
\
I am not sure what the stated objectives were for the course. I think the intent was to provide my colleagues insights into ways to better manage clinical trial data and prepare spreadsheets that make data entry and tracking of patient visits more easy.\
\
Chris was billiant, made sure we have a good foundation in excel whilst building our knowledge up.. Learnt lots of helpful and time saving shortcuts.\
\
\
Thank you very much to Chris for the excellent training provided, we is very supportive and has a very good teaching skills. I am sure the team will put in place the learned stuff to improve our system.  I would highly recommended! Thank you again. \
Really great course. Kevin was very friendly, helpful and knew a lot. Made the session engaging. I personally learnt a lot and think this was a really useful way to spend my day. \
\
Overall Kevin was an excellent teacher, explained everything in a clear and concise manner when additional questions were asked. Instructions and approach to the sessions were very clear.\
Good training, very helpful. Covered a wide range of helpful tips and useful functions, and made this simple to use and learn. \
\
\
All is good and nice. \
\
Fantastic training, Chris was very helpful and supportive. Was also very helpful when booking on to the course and making arrangements around work. Would 100% recommend\
It was very clear and proffesional\
The Reception and Security service leaves a lot to be desired. Quite unprofessional and unhelpful.\
Great course. Chris had a great way of teaching. Will be back for intermediate course.  \
Overall excellent content and teaching.\
\
I'm pleased to have attended this Advance Excel course and am looking forward to the VBA course.  Many thanks.\
great\
Found both this course and the intermediary course very helpful. Good amount of content, set out well. Training materials and documents helpful and presented well.    I have recommended that my employer rolls out these/ similar sessions on site as believe a business would benefit from these.  \
Overall a good course that covers a lot of excel functions.  The teacher is friendly and helpful\
\
\
Having hand-outs and manuals to take away would be very helpful. Furthermore, if we were to practice on actual reports that we use daily; I think we could apply our knowledge and give us a greater chance of applying it when we go away. \
Thanks very much, I came for a refresher and i got exactly that. It was an excellent course, I highly recommend it.\
An enjoyable course and I felt positive about what I had learnt. I would like to go to another in the future. Maybe at a more advanced level course in the future, once I have grasped the aspects taught in this course.\
Overall very useful - adding to my current knowledge of Excel. The hands on approach is more likely to embed the info in my memory.\
Very good course. Chris was able to deal with the different levels of staff capabilities on site today while keeping everyone engaged and informed.\
\
\
Training materials could be customed to include examples more relative to everyday work examples. Less time could be spent on quick keys as these could be given out at the start to reference where required.\
Chris was thoroughly prepared, with relevant examples to demonstrate his points and a good pace kept throughout. The course suffered a little from having so many (twelve) people in and of slightly varying ability, but this is more of a Kambi issue than a 'We Are Excel' issue.\
Good atmosphere/tone. \
\
Tremendous!\
\
A solid day where I feel my knowledge has grown from the basic level it was at previously. Where as some day training sessions can drag, Chris did a great job of keep things interesting and delivered the training well.\
\
\
\
\
The course matched everything it said on the tin and more. Chris was an absolute delight and specifically helped me with issues that I will be encountering in an interview next week.   I woke up this morning slightly dreading having to do an Excel course but Chris managed to make it fun and strangely enjoyable. I will be sure to recommend this course to a friend!\
Didnt book directly so have marked presuming ok\
Thanks so much\
Fantastic course!  Really increased my confidence with Excel and  left me wanting to learn more....and attend the next course!  Will definitely be recommending to others! \
\
\
\
Chris was really helpful. He made me feel like I could ask questions if I did not understand the first time around and let everyone work at their own pace.  The content was varied which suited all needs.\
\
Thank you very much! I've learned a lot of things today. Very informative, Chris was really helpful . Great stuff!\
The only slight issues I had were that my laptop settings were in Romanian, could be worth checking everyone is using the same settings from the start\
\
\
Learned valuable excel skills which will help me with my day to day work. \
\
Training is quick, simple and very understandable. You could easily take in more lessons in a day.\
Incredibly useful course, well presented by Chris. Would love to do a further course\
\
\
Hugely helpful, and will most likely be back for the advanced.\
Our trainer, Chris, was amazing - he clearly understood everything really well, but explained everything really clearly, comprehensively and went through everything thoroughly without being too techie. He made sure we all understood without making anyone feel like they weren't keeping up. Just fab! Feel really confident to go out and put in to practice everything I've learned.\
Amazing, such an incredible course. \
\
I would highly recommend this course to anyone wanting to better themselves at Excel. It's an extremely useful skill, both for personal and professional life.   Chris was patient and knowledgeable. A really great day of learning,  \
A very good course, with a very good teacher.  Making sure that you understood the mechanics behind the functions was key, not just 'doing them'\
LOVED IT.  SO VERY USEFUL.  CAME AWAY VERY CONFIDENT WITH MY NEW SKILLS\
Great course for those with a basic knowledge. Lots of good tips and shortcuts.  Clear and knowledgeable instruction.  Would recommend doing this course.  \
it was a good experience \
Booking was easy and Alicia sent me all necessary information. I booked quite last minute and the details were all sent through. \
\
Very helpful and enjoyable \
Excellent delivery by Chris\
Many of the basics that we have gone through today will be very help with my day to day work. This will definitely release some of my time to focus on key aspect of my work.\
Back on the course for a more advanced training and able to apply to every day work. Great to apply the work load to practical use. Would recommend again!\
Chris was very informative and knowledgeable. The course was well organised. Intermediate course suited my abilities and expectations\
 Thank you!\
WeAreWork location is great.\
will be booking the advanced course next - learnt so much that i was afraid of before\
\
Good course and very interactive.\
\
\
Great course, however, some of the more basic things could have been completed a bit quicker i.e. a slightly quicker pace throughout would've been beneficial as we could have covered a greater amount of content. Having said that, Chris was happy to stay around and teach us a bit more if we wanted to.\
Hope to do advanced! Was really interesting! \
\
\
Feel like I learnt a great deal at a good pace! \
\
\
\
\
\
Again cannot have been better in the knowledge gained and patience in getting us all there!\
\
great course learnt some top tips! thanks again chris! \
Cheers for the pen, see you in the next course \
\
Would highly recommend.\
\
great course, fun environment and top guy teaching. \
\
\
\
TRAINER GOOD PEOPLE SKILLS GREAT UNDERSTANDING OF SUBJECT, HELPFUL AND SUPPORTIVE  COURSE CONTENT  WAS GOOD AND MANAGEABLE TRAINING MATERIALS HELPFUL  FEEL COMFORTABLE ABOUT DOING BASIC EXCEL NOW \
\
Overall, really good course - I now feel much more comfortable working with spreadsheets. I also realise their potential a lot more\
\
\
Very happy with the whole process and feel equipped with the right tools to move on to level 2 and work efficiently in the business environement.\
Brilliant course, \
Really enjoyable. I was anxious in advance about being a complete beginner but Chris was really good at straightforward explanations and very patient!\
I have found the course materials very helpful and easy to read. Chris really made complex matters simple and invested a lot of time and ensuring that we all understood everything. He was also very supportive and motivating which made the course interesting. I definitely recommend this course to everyone. \
Training materials were not easy to follow, or used much during the course. Updated materials would be very useful!\
All in all a really useful training event. I am not new to excel, but I learnt a lot in a very well structured way that built upon a number of principles that will prove invaluable to me in creating and updating spreadsheets. \
\
Thoroughly enjoyed, really useful and would def recommend.\
Chris was amazing and patient and assisted to everyone needs despite variation in knowledge.\
The trainer was brilliant. Easy to understand and taught us what we needed to know.\
\
As above\
\
\
Excellent course\
Really great practical hands on learning and very detailed notes to take away with you which means you don't have to be writing notes all day and missing information. \
\
\
I will definitely be recommending other colleagues to sign up for this course - I have a wealth of knowledge that I can now go back and utilise at work.  Excellent course!\
\
\
Approachable trainer, didn't make me feel uncomfortable asking basic questions\
\
A very good course to learn the basics and more. \
\
I think that we could have possibly covered a little more in the time given but at at least this way we will remember everything covered!\
\
Great teacher, was enthused and engaging. Most likely would book another course through your company. Well structured and efficient day.\
VERY GOOD THAT CHRIS HAS ALREADY DEVELOPED A BOOKLET SO NO NEED TO CONSTANTLY WRITE DOWN NOTES AS YOU GO ALONG!\
\
overall the course was very helpful.  i would recommend to other people.  however, chris our trainer was taking calls throughout the training and his phone kept ringing which was very distracting.\
\
well delivered, engaging tutor, suspect that we didn't brief in terms on content needs but met my personal requirements well.\
\
The course was well taught and I've learned new things, although some of the material were things that I likely won't use. Still good to learn it!\
\
Found overall experience helpful and easy. Would 100% recommend this to anyone who would like to learn more on excel \
I am very glad we booked with Chris, the feedback from our staff was extremely positive. \
Improved my competency in excel, very good teacher.\
the course trainer was very thorough and very enthusiastic \
\
The course material was very thorough and Chris was very engaging which made the information easier to absorb.\
Really enjoyed the course and learned useful hints and tips that can be used very day.  Useful notes to refer back to as a memory jog.\
Took a while to get joining instructions, had to ask my HR manager to get in touch for them\
\
\
Very professional  planning to continue to the next level\
Thanks for unlocking the mysteries of excel for me\
I gained a lot of knowledge from the course today and would now be interested to develop this further.  I think that some homework or a follow up, perhaps with work on a real project would be beneficial to cement the knowledge gained.\
Made the rather intimidating of Excel so much less so, now feel confident and excited for how I can practically apply what I have learnt today. \
A great course. Manged to appeal to all abilities and provide enough new content to those with previous excel experience. Thoroughly enjoyable and a great course teacher. Thank you, Chris.  \
Very informative course, I went from knowing ZERO to understanding the basics needed to navigate Excel, which was my main objective. Quiz and prize was fun too. \
The only reason it hasn't completely met my objectives is because I would like to learn about pivot tables and learn how to do more sophisticated calculations (formulas).  But this was a great foundation, which I needed!  And the instruction was top notch.\
Good basics to build upon! \
\
Very interesting in each level and passionate teacher that will make time for students! \
This has been my 2nd course with We are Excel and it was really good. Chris is an amazing trainer, who explains the tasks very well and then there are practical excercises to test what you have just learned. I would definitely recommend this course to anyone that would like to develop their Excel skills!\
I would have preferred some more information about the course contents before booking, and perhaps a more substantial pack of information sent before the course started\
Enjoyed the whole experience.\
Really useful and enjoyable course!\
\
\
The course went very well. Chris has been extremely helpful as we did all exercises in prepared work sheets but he has also helped me with applying the knowledge at an example from my work. I would definitely recommend this course to everyone who would like to enhance his/her knowledge of Excel!\
I was informed I was on the course a while ago, but did not receive joining instructions and I was not expected on the day - fortunately a colleague could not attend and so I took his place\
I personally, would prefer a notebook/handbook with space to write notes.  But the handouts are more than sufficient and easy to read, with the added advantage of being sent them all electronically. \
none\
\
Good stuff\
Excellent course, very engaging and knowledgeable trainer\
\
\
\
\
really friendly trainers, good facilities. felt like i could ask any question and i would get a simple and straight forward explanation. lots of hints and tips, felt like i could use in everyday work\
\
Can we have training notes regarding VLookup functions. Supporting documentation sent through quicker while still very fresh in the mind\
\
Very handy and helpful.\
\
Absolutely the best XL course I have ever attended.  I now understand a range of things I haven't to-date.\
Great course and achieved my required outcomes. Chris is courteous and engaging and I look forward to attending more courses in future.\
\
Excellent Course - really helped consolidate some of what I knew as well as introduce me to a bunch of new things that will be really helpful in the future.\
I found Chris to be really patient and informative. Some of us were much less experienced with excel than others and I am sure that was difficult to manage, but he assisted happily and still managed to get through the whole course on time\
The course was easy to understand and at the right level for me as an intermediate.\
\
See above\
\
This course exceeded my expectations. The trainer was extremely knowledgeable and engaging.\
\
\
Very helpful and useful course\
Excellent course in a relaxed atmosphere.  Thanks for the lunch as well which was not expected!\
\
\
\
\
\
\
This is one of the best training courses I have attended. The trainer was excellent.\
\
I will recommend this trainer to anyone wanting Excel training. It really was Excel-ent!!\
Well paced and succinct \
\
Chris is a fantastic trainer and genuinely engaging. He was able to answer all of my questions and talked me through processes and tools in a relaxed but clear and defined fashion. There was no need to take notes thanks to the course pack and watch-then-try approach.\
really happy with the training, gained new very useful skills which will help doing my work\
\
Good pace, all questions answered\
An excellent two days, moving at a good pace and answering all my questions\
It is very good. I had no knowledge of VBA. By taking this course, I gain the basic knowledge for the VBA and understand if I have an issue, how to look for it. As it is the start, I really learn a lot. \
Excellent - made what could appear intimidatingly complex, understandable, progressing at a pace that enabled understanding and without overloading\
\
\
\
\
Still waiting second course to achieve the main objective \
\
i would definitely recommend this course to anyone. i thought the trainer was very clear in his overall skills.\
\
Really informative and enjoyable course.\
\
Excellent course! Managed to learn a large amount of information in a small period of time. Clearly structured, very good teaching, and lots of opportunities to tailor to your own needs and questions. Would strongly recommend. \
I definitely feel much more equipped now using Excel to make spreadsheets and analyse data. The time went very quickly but I feel that we covered a lot of ground within that amount of time.\
Really interesting. Very helpful. \
would be great to have printing materials\
\
I was very please with the course, it was at a level that was ideal for me and I feel that I learnt a lot that I can put into practice\
\
\
\
Great course. Chris was extremely knowledgably and likeable\
Extremely informative\
\
\
Good Trainer\
The trainer was excellent and provide excellent information and guided all people, irrespective of their ability, throughout each task together and insured everyone had a full understanding of the course. \
\
Very good, concise, well planned course. Chris was very helpful and was eager for everyone to understand and learn from what he was teaching.\
\
\
\
\
An excellent course and delivery. Will very seriously consider the Advanced Course due to the quality of today's course content, delivery and outcomes.\
Booking process was my only issue as i had to pay over the phone rather than online itself. Really enjoyed the course, comfortable to get in touch no problem with further questions. Great that lunch and refreshments were provided. All good.\
Would definitely recommend - a good inside to excel and how to use certain tools as well as simplifying to make it understandable\
Chris was very good at communicating the various topics and made it very simple to follow. Overall very satisfied.\
Chris, the trainer made this so easy to understand. He spoke in layman's terms, I really thought this course would be hard and I'd hate every minute but I've really enjoyed it and mourn the days wasted on not being able to use this fabulous tool. For any training needs around Windows I won't hesitate to call Chris. I feel so much more confident now.\
I feel that my confidence in front of a screen has increased dramatically and I am now ready to hopefully get back to work in an office evironment.\
Very well prepared course. Thoughtful -- it so happened that we were more or less on the same level which helped. \
Really rate Chris and would love to attend another of his Courses if the opportunity pops us.\
Would have been nice to fit in Macros briefly but understand that this is a large topic and we ran out of time.\
It was difficult to find the venue.\
I will recommend others to attend. The environment was clean and well presented.\
\
\
GAVE ME LOTS TO BE GOING ON WITH, WILL DEFFINATELY USE A LOT OF THE DETAIL \
Covered a wide range of topics\
This was part one of two part course which went really well. Well balanced and informative. \
\
\
\
I am coming out of htis course SO much more confident with excel, with very difficult concepts now pretty much fully understood. The pace was great considering how much material was covered, and it was in depth. Questions were answered brilliantly, and I did not feel as if we were rushed to move onto the next chapter due to time constraints. Laptops were provided, and no time was wasted by Chris umming and ahhing about the different sheets and workbooks to use. Would highly recommend the course and look forward to more.\
Really great day and would recommend to my colleagues for future training. \
I feel the training was really good, and as there was only two of us a lot of time was delegated to each of us. Which is great, but it also meant we went through subjects quickly, in these times it might be great to finish early instead of try and use the whole day  repeating similar topics. Depends on individuals speed on how fast they pick up on it. \
highly reccomend\
The course was much more useful than I expected. Chris was a great trainer who was clear and precise with his explanations.\
Well presented\
Very good course that helped my knowledge a lot. Trainer was very patient and helpful!\
\
\
MOST ENJOYABLE\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Chris was very thorough and went through everything at a good pace. We covered everything we needed to and even had time to help with personal issues with excel - why a pivot table always picks count for values instead of sum etc.  This course will help me with my day to day job and make my life so much easier especially with the slicer!\
EASY TO BOOK, GOOD PRICE, GREAT TRAINER, GOOD LOCATION, EASY TO FOLLOW, WOULD DEFINITELY RECOMMEND. FEEL A LOT MORE CONFIDENT, THANK YOU\
Great help - thanks very much. Looking to come back to the advance class.\
\
Will definitely recommend. \
\
For someone with a basic understanding of excel, the course provides you with a basic framework of navigating and using different tools within excel which you can then take away to use on a daily basis.  I would recommend the course to anyone using excel in any capacity.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very satisfied with day spent on the course. Thanks.\
Simple, easily digestible, effective training.\
Great Teacher !\
Would like to take the advanced course!\
\
Excellent training session\
\
\
\
Very happy with this course thank You\
\
VERY HELPFUL\
\
Very enjoyable and very easy to understand, and great to take away and use\
A well laid out course, interesting not too much information over-load which is good.  Step by step in a creative learning style.\
\
\
\
Really enjoyed today and actually feel  excited about getting on excel and trailing out my new skills, and improving the existing spread sheets I use \
Would have like the PDF notes so that I could have made notes at the same time \
\
The breadth of the concept was covered in a very palatable manner and was easy to grasp and follow. \
I could have benefitted from the more advanced elements of the content that maybe we did not get too but the content we covered was excellent for the group as a whole.\
I found this course very helpful for my role\
Found it useful and insightful. \
Thank you Chris! :) \
\
I enjoyed having our own laptops and being able to practice as you learning.\
Chris James was patient and approachable. Would have liked to taken the advanced course though.\
Great course, i would definitely recommend it to others.\
\
\
\
\
Its is now to put to practice what Chris has taught.\
Very good course which covered everything I needed. Chris was very good and able to answer any questions we threw at him and ensured everyone had the time to understand the methods and criteria \
I really enjoyed this course and thought Chris was a really good teacher. Having gone in to the course knowing working with most of the material I hoped to learn some things I may not be aware of which could make my life easier. This course certainly helped with that as I learnt a few handy short cut keys and some functions I will definitely use in the future when creating databases and tools on Excel.\
Trainer is extremely knowledgeable on excel however does not baffle you with formulas or information, he ensures everyone has time to take it all in and supports when needed. The content is extremely useful in our day to day working and I can see this training course having a positive impact on our day job and efficiencies due to this.\
\
I found the course very beneficial and I have learnt loads!  Would defiantly recommend to anyone. Chris was a great help and was lovely to work with :)\
This form was not the easier to complete, kept jumping around ?!  overall a good course and benefitted from it immensely \
\
Thanks for the course, was genuinely a pleasure and a great refresher. I also came away learning new things regarding excel.\
That was a positive course. Maybe some more action with power point to present datas could be useful.\
Helpful and insightful.\
\
\
\
\
\
Very helpful. Will definitely be changing my way of working with Excel\
\
Good intro - I feel confident I now have the basic knowledge to use Excel with confodence\
\
well done Chris and I hope I can come to level 2\
\
Engaging trainer who covered all queries. Recommend to anyone who uses excel in any way in the workplace. \
Excellent\
\
\
\
it was a good session, it gives much more understanding how to use Excel. \
This course showed and taught me quick versions of using excel to maxmise my usage of this programme in a quick and fast effective way.\
\
Overall a very beneficial course.\
\
\
\
Really enjoyed learning more about Excel and would love to attend the Level 2 course to develop my understanding further. \
\
\
\
\
Good introductory course to VBA, certainly enough of a framework to start exploring VBEon my own \
The course was exceptionally useful in preparing us for building, repairing and editing macros. Chris James spoke very well and was able to communicate this thoughts and ideas with ease. The trainees were all at sligtly different levels, albeit they're all proficient in using Excel, however Chris James was more than competent at bring his knowledge down to our level - I would certainly recommend this to other teams within the business, as well as the general public.\
Very helpful, thank you!\
\
Really beneficial course. Would recommend to anyone using Excel.  Helpful tips and useful in my everyday work.  Thanks Chris \
\
Chris is obviously very knowledgeable about the subject and can offer many different approaches to functions and scenarios. The approach he has in teaching Excel has made me feel confident that I will remember what I have learnt upon leaving the training room...this isn't always the case with training courses! I think the resources and the journey taken with each element contributed to this.\
Bit too much content for one day.  \
\
\
I now feel a bit more comfortable using powerpoint\
Only lowered stars as I was quite versed with Keynote already :)\
\
\
Brill!!!\
\
\
Chris was great as usual! We had him for the xcel training so no one was worried about how brilliant the course today would be. \
N/A\
We love Chris!\
\
As there is many platforms where you can use excel (mac, Pc...),  the trainer should be familiar with all of them\
\
Teacher could have had better knowledge of different excel versions (as in the Apple one, or OpenDocument, etc)\
\
\
\
perhaps more information on how to find the place and what facilities available i.e. bring your own refreshments or money for local cafe etc. other than that great - thank you. \
The course was well organised. The instructor was well prepared and was very attentive to the needs of individual students. It was a good experience. \
Great Course - well worth the money - will save me time when working on excel as well as creating better results - Very knowledgeable trainer who is passionate about his subject -  \
excellent professor full of knowledge\
\
overally  good course however i knew more than half the stuff so this was a refresher for me\
\
\
Very happy with the course, would recommend it.\
Just Great!\
\
Chris was great and was excellent at answering questions! Would be good to know a little more about mac in comparison to windows. \
\
\
Very informative\
Another great course. The only negative is having done the Intermediate course earlier this week it was a little frustrating in parts of the Advance course to be repeating topics.\
Very good Trainer. We would like to learn more about Macros and VBA.\
\
It was an enjoyable day. It was also useful to take time away from the desk to reflect and interact with colleagues in a stress free environment. Also the room used worked very well.\
Good flexibility in approach/tack taken during the day\
Happy with the achieved results and support provided by the tutuor\
Now looking forward to the Advanced course on Wednesday!\
\
\
\
Chris is a personable and engaging trainer. THe subject was interesting and he kept it continually relevant. \
Enjoyed the course.\
Very helpful and willing to provide materials asked.\
Good quality, can't wait to put my learning into practice.\
Well presented and well organised.\
Brilliant trainer and course. I learnt so much and can't wait to put my new knowledge into practice at work\
Would have preferred that we spent more time on V look ups but that is nothing against the course as this is not a one to to one session.\
Appreciated the one to one training. Easy to follow the course and learn in bite-sized chunks. Very helpful to be offered follow-up help as an additional extra.\
Excellant with patience and very helpful.\
Great teacher, very helpful, informative and knowledgeable. \
Excellent course, informative, engaging and all questions answered thoroughly\
\
This was very beneficial for what I needed. Chris made sure he covered all of my questions and has given me some tools to help with my role at work.\
\
A crib sheet ( which I intend to make now) to help with quickly  remembering which observations were needed 2 or 3 times while getting  used to the content of the different modules, would be helpful .  A bit more focus on what the meanjngs of the expected observations to be made would be helpful ,  as some terms needed clarification but we had to look for tjr behaviurs/ communicationd in the films  before being sure what they fully meant .  Thank you \
I found the course really interesting and thought that Carol delivered and explained everything very well and could justify each point. My only comment would be that I found it harder to watch the video's at the end of the day and would of preferred to be doing more of the coding at the end of the day in order to help myself be more alert and active.  \
This was my second go at ADOS .did previous course almost a decade back .Found the course /training informative ,also presented in a way that key features were  highlighted especially as the scoring other wise could be confusing .Carol was very experienced and had in depth understanding of all the modules and practical tips on administration .Feel encouraged to pursue learning further .Enjoyed the training  thank you \
\
\
I found the course really enjoyable and really helpful. It has increased my understanding of ASD and the demonstration activities were really helpful. \
\
I found this course really informative and the knowledge of the instructers was excellent.\
\
Very informative and enjoyable. Excellent quality of teaching. Responsive and flexible to the individual needs of the students. Well paced with good coverage of both ADOS-2 and ADI-R.    \
Carol was very knowledgeable and skilled but open to alternative perspectives and very humble and pragmatic in her approach - which i very much appreciated.  materials offered were thorough and professional and all in all an excellent course that achieved all of its aims and more.  highly recommend to others.    Venue was very good - easy parking, great food and comfortable all round.   \
Brilliant course - thanks Carol! \
\
I really enjoyed the course and feel it has put me in a position where I feel confident in my understanding of how to administer an ADOS assessment.   I felt that there needed to be a good amount of knowledge in relation to ASD from the trainees. I was slightly concerned that .while talking to other trainees, some individuals did not recognise or pick up on the characteristics in which the ADOS activities were trying to draw out of the child/adult engaging in the ADOS. This is not a criticism of the course but is a slight concern I had following the course. \
Great course, trainer was fantastic. Only suggestion is that the course allows more time for participants to practice administering the tool to one another. \
Great course and Carol Stott was a VERY good teacher. Only suggested improvement is to increase the time available for us to practice administering the ADOS in small groups. \
\
I would have been very interested in more opportunity to discuss or have a presentation on the high functioning more subtle ASD presentations which would be more typical in CAMHS setting.\
excellent trainer with in-depth research and practical knowledge of ASD easy to ask questions as trainer developed a good rapport with the audience trainer generated a sense of confidence in the instrument through the role play and scoring activities i would love to do some ADOS reliability training/supervision with Dr Stott \
Our trainer had such a thorough understanding of the ADOS and used useful case examples from her own practice to illustrate key points.  The only improvements I would suggest - could we have additional pre course reading in addition to the video exercise to re orient us to thinking about ASD and the key constructs e.g. ToM. The videos were very helpful but some felt a bit out dated. Carols videos were excellent. Thank you for thorough training.. \
I feel for the price that we should have had a few interview and algorithm forms to take away. \
Dr. Stott was thorough with the contents of the ADI-R and generous in answering questions and providing examples for clarity. \
Thank you for a very enjoyable course I now feel confident in starting to administer the ADI-R The course materials were excellent The facilitator Carol was clear, helpful and very patient  - and obviously very experienced in this area. \
Really enjoyed course Very interactive Useful to have discussions related to ADOS also\
I would have liked the handouts during the course\
Excellent and thorough. Lots of helpful additional information such as on the ADOS.\
Excellent course. It is a bit hard going at times but I think that reflects the nature of the work and the reality of doing the ADI R\
Great training course delivered by a very knowledgable trainer. The videos and chances to interact with the ADOS kit really consolidate the learning. As discussed during the training, we wondered about having a more detailed look at autism at the beginning of the course to focus our thinking. \
Excellent course and delivery. All appropriate materials are provided and receptive to the needs of the group\
So helpful and great allowance of discussion and direct teaching balance \
The course was very enlightening. I found it more useful than expected and very relevant to my professional field. It was also useful to gain insight into other professions and the use of the ADOS-2 / ADI-R within these fields, across ages and need.  \
\
Very informative and helpful.  The tools were helpfully contextualized and presented as aids to formulation rather than providing a diagnosis.  Carol was an excellent, knowledgeable and enthusiastic trainer.  I found the group role-play of the ADI-R the least enjoyable activity although it was still useful.  I found the use of video and open reflective discussion great, and to be well facilitated.  I would have no hesitation in recommending the course.\
\
I really enjoyed the course - I struggled with the room because of the lighting. Had originally thought it was just me but I think a couple of people were getting headaches - made it hard to stay focussed throughout.   The materials were fantastic and I loved the competency based nature of the learning. \
The training was very useful as it helped me to understand the different modules and coding in a lot more detail, allowing me to apply these skills to accurately administer and score the ADOS. \
Carol was an incredibly knowledgeable and helpful trainer. She also adapted well to having a small room and not really the best environment for training, and adapted her style to meet our needs- we all had varying experiences and work in different specialties. The training itself was quite intense with a lot to get through during the week, but Carol made this as pleasant and smooth as possible. Thank you.    \
At the beginning of the week I was unsure how I would incorporate the interviews within my work with adult males.  However, as the week progressed, I recognised that I could employ the various items associated with the ADOS-2 and ADI-R in a more informal way, that is, it provided a structure for exploring ASD features.\
Carol was so knowledgeable and flexible, so I felt that the needs of everyone in the room were met.\
Much of this was very new to me and it took a while to process.  However, it was really interesting, relevant to my work and I am already thinking about how I can use it once I've done some practice.  Carol was clearly well-informed and experienced and was able to convey her knowledge in an accessible way.  She was  responsive to the needs and experience of the group and showed an interest into the potential problems of confounding variables when undertaking assessments with the ADOS and ADI.  \
Well tailored to the audience in the room! Carole made the room feel very comfortable and at ease, and was very flexible, particularly given the weather!!  Many thanks for the sharing of experiences, knowledge and skill. I look forward to using these assesments in practice.\
excellent course. I Thought the trainer was excellent, very knowledgeable and could give excellent examples of previous experience. Overall I really enjoyed the course and learnt a lot. The venue was excellent and again could not praise the trainer enough for the overall experience.  \
Really enjoyed the course and thought the teaching was excellent. \
Excellent Course. DR Carol Scott was an excellent facilitator and shared her expertise and humour to make this a most enjoyable course.\
It was a great experience!!\
Carol is an exceptional tutor.  The video with the interview is kind of tiresome . Finally, a bit more training with the scoring is needed. \
\
\
\
\
\
Everything was well organised and nicely presented. The only thing which i felt was kinda missing was a bit more focus on interviewing informants to children of younger age.\
\
\
Thank you very much for all the information and actual training. It was one of the best trainings I've been. \
\'8c\'f4n addition to the rating rules important clinical issues were discussed - diagnostic dilemmas that require deep clinical knowledge have been discussed in detail.\
\
Generally an excellent course, I might suggest some role play and brief practice of actually performing the ADOS with other attendees may be of help, but overall a very well organised and delivered course.  Thanks  Am looking forward to receiving post-course material now.\
Excellent course that has broadened and deepened my knowledge and understanding of ASD. I left feeling competent to use the ADI and ADOS within my clinical practice.   At times I found the pace slightly slow and struggled with group discussions where we spent long periods of time debating coding (i.e. time could have been better spent). Although these conversations are always helpful, as someone who is very familiar with psychometric testing I found the pace quite slow and repetitive. However I think this was the nature of the group but thought it might be worth considering in future mixed group trainings.  \
Really enjoyable course, well planned with a range of tasks to suit all learning styles. Initially I was worried about doing a week long course, but every moment was enjoyable! \
The course was everything I hoped it would be; covering all aspects of ADOS-2 and so much more. The trainer was very experienced and knowledgeable and this made the training and materials all the more accessible. \
I really enjoyed the training, but I was missing more information about toddlers and first module and overall attention to younger children.  And I am still waiting post-course materials. The trainer said that she will share with us her slides and homework. \
The course was excellent and so was the trainer.   However, there was not enough time taken to explain and practice the ADOS assessments for the younger modules (1 and 2).  I am hoping to see the post course videos on how to practically deliver the ADOS.   I felt it was aimed more towards those working with older children and the ADI-R Nonetheless - I very much enjoyed the course and learnt a lot.  Many thanks to Carol who was always happy to answer any questions \
The course was really good. It would only be good to add some practical assignments, which would include performing ADOS 2 on real people/cases.  \
Videos a bit old, and no female ADOS examples during the course are the only criticism I could offer.  Carol and the course were brilliant.\
She is very knowledgeable and experienced\
Good, engaging and experienced trainer whom supported learning process.  Good application of training to real clinical experience and examples.  \
The course was excellent, I enjoyed how the two assessments were blended together throughout the week. The trainer was incredibly knowledgeable and made the course interesting and relevant to each clinicians clinical area.  \
Fantastic course delivered by experts in this area. The course facilitator accommodated for the wide variety of professions  really well and provided all with the opportunity to learn appropriately to their own pace and style. The training facilities were excellent and provided great food, all staff were polite and friendly throughout the week. It ws a pleasure to attend this course, thank you for the opportunity!\
The combination course allowed for the opportunity to understand how items/coding on the ADOS overlap with questions on the ADI-R. The videos and live case study was an excellent way to provide experience first hand. Carol\'82\'c4\'f4s knowledge of both autism and administering the test is insightful and informative and she ensures the highest quality training for her students. I learn so much every time we work together. Very much enjoyed and can\'82\'c4\'f4t wait to be able to start to use these measures to support families/young people in in need of the diagnosis. Venue was also lovely. Couldn\'82\'c4\'f4t have been an easier more enjoyable week with very nice professional people. Thank you BWA! \
The course was excellent in terms of the quality and expertise of the trainer, the live administrations and the resources etc.   I did feel however, that the course was a little geared towards clinicians working with adults. (The majority of the group were working with adults and I can understand that this is likely the reason for the adult focus throughout the week, especially with managing adult focused questions from trainees).   The most useful activities for me (working with preschool children) was the afternoon assigned to observing a toddler module video and a module 2 video with a young child, however, these sessions were unfortunately quite rushed due to lunch being served and the course leader (Sissy) leaving at 4.15 on this day. This resulted in reduced opportunity for group discussion about coding and administration.  For the above reasons, I think it would be good to consider providing future training to clinicians based on the client populations they are working with (e.g. child focused versus adult focused).   On a very positive note though, I thoroughly enjoyed the course overall and learnt so much which I will be able to carry through to my practice. Many thanks. \
\
I felt the trainer was very knowledgeable regarding the assessment and ASD. I felt she was able to impart the information in an easy to understand yet professional manner. \
\
\
\
\
Carole was a great trainer. Really interesting course. Totally relevant for my work. thanks \
Excellent course with very good trainer. I really liked Carol's approach to delivering the ADI-R Training.  The training was very practical  and readily applicable to the clinical scenarios we have to deal with regularly. \
Overall, the course was very good. My only criticism would be that 3 days did feel a bit too long and 2 days would have been sufficient. I think the course could have been condensed and less practice at the ADI-R was needed. However, I felt the trainer was very knowledgeable and willing to answer any questions asked. She had a very pleasant demeanour and certainly is a good teacher!\
\
The course was excellent. Lots of reflection and practice, and discussion of some common issues arising within ADI-R and ASD assessment more generally. Highly recommended.\
Thorough training and good english humor!\
\
I am very satisfied with the course overall.  Carol was brilliant.  The videos were very instructive but on the last video the quality of the audio wasn't that good. Taking into account that it was the last video and most of us were pretty restless, it  was a bit hard to follow. I think that the post seminar videos are absolutely necessary and am looking forward to them .  Thanks again. \
Very informative trainer and always available to explain in detail any questions \
I would like to see a real case as well!!!\
I' d prefer some more practice of our own both in guiding a session and presenting the several ados tasks to the participant and in coding as well\
Thank you very much for all the training and this course.It would be usefull if we had some more videos and coding. I have some questions about coding. We assess Ados to 2 children for practice and because the lack of experience we need some help. Tell us if its possible to come on friday morning and discuss  Thank you very much Sofia Anesiadou\
I feel that It would be even more educational, if we had the opportunity to score more videos with different clinical cases. That could happen by getting more videos from you for the next few days, and having a double score. And that because we found out that scoring after  ADOS assesement was actually  hard for us in cases of no clear autism or typical children, no matter the chronological age. Thank you.\
\
\
It was a valuable and great experience. Very educational content. \
\
Maybe more videos would be of educational significance, provided thst the course would have had a longer duration. I believe the course provided too much information for four days. I think five days would be just  right to process new knowledge.\
\
\
\
Excellent jod !\
\
\
\
Found the course interesting , it was very useful to observe the interviews and complete the assessment personally \
Fantastic content, well paced delivery, very experienced trainer\
The trainer was very knowledgeable and engaging. The pace of the course was good. \
\
\
The materials were very well planned.  Kept to time.  Carol is and engaging and charismatic teacher who was prepared to have discussion as we went along.  She kept it all flowing nicely\
Very helpful. Knowledgeable trainer and lots of space for reflection and further questions. Perhaps some initial overall information re:autism /diagnostic stats/ triad of impairments would be helpful.\
\
\
\
\
Carol was a fantastic facilitator the training was delivered very well. The only constructive feedback I have is to say that I feel it would be helpful to practice running through an ADOS in a role play. \
The videos and consensus scoring exercises helped to embed practice and I feel more confident as a result.  Having the ADOS kit to look at helped too, \
very informative and relevant and well delivered. would have like some more information on assessment of girls presenting for assessment and in particular older girls as all the video clients were  males .\
The course was comprehensive and well organised, it gave a thorough overview of the uses of the ADOS and I feel much more confident in my ability to use the assessment effectively in my work. \
\
Very slight point about the venue. It would have been nice to have something other than biscuits at each break- fruit perhaps?\
Very enjoyable informative course \
All aspects of the course were relevant to our practice and really helped deepen my understanding of using the ADOS and in assessing Autism Spectrum Condition. Carol's training videos were good and it was very helpful to be able to discuss the coding in more depth and to talk about issues with administration and coding that were applicable to our clinical work. \
thoroughly enjoyable with the correct amount of practical and theory\
\
\
An excellent course, which I look forward to putting into practise\
Thank you very much for an excellent course. I thoroughly enjoyed it and it will be of tremendous benefit to my practice and the young people I work with. I really have learnt a lot on the course and hope to attend another course with yourself in the future. My only other comment (and not negative at all, merely my own opinion), would be that as I had already watched the video of child C., as my pre course assignment, I would have father had the opportunity to watch another video of another child in that time, rather than watch the same video again. But this is only a minor point, I thought the course was really great, thanks again.\
The Course  provided by Carol was very good and informative and the practicum elements helped to understand the administration and scoring process.  Considering the difficulties related to the administration of the ADOS, I think Carol has one a good job in explaining how it works and the state of art of this  area of psychology. I will make sure I will reach out for supervision. Many Thanks  \
Excellent course, very interesting and professional trainer\
I found the training very useful, and it has helped me gain confidence when talking to other professionals about autism. I knew there a couple of behaviours that were autism related but now see that it's based on an assessment on a collection of behaviours. I found Carol very knowledgeable and able to answer questions in an open informative way. I have already recommended this course to others working in this field.\
\
Thoroughly enjoyed the course. Carol is extremely knowledgeable and obviously passionate about her work. The course was informative and interesting throughout. \
The course was excellent and has made me feel very enthusiastic to start using the ADOS in our clinics.\
The course was very enjoyable but durig the coding discussions it felt a fast pace which did make it hard to follow at times.  Overall the course was good. Watching the videos and coding where very good ways of learning what we had to look out for in which activities, in order to code.\
Course extremely interesting and informative however felt a litttle fast at times. Could probably have done with an extra day to enable more opportunity for discussion and slower explanation . Course content good and materials especially course workbook. Would have been nice to have 2 copies of each module\
An amazing course.  Clear delivery of content This will support me in my role with the Autism assessment team. Many thanks \
Venue rather 'erratic' - we had to use a different room for each of the 4 days\
Carol was an excellent facilitator. Her depth of knowledge of the measure  (and the area in general)was excellent and her interpersonal skills and skilled communication made the course most enjoyable. I would be very interested in any further trainings with Carol especially in ADOS -2 if available\
Excellent course and trainer\
super to benefit from the depth and breadth of Carol's extensive experience in the fields of ASD and ID - highly recommended - Aoife \
I thought Carol's approach to the course material was excellent. Nothing was rushed and each item was given the time and consideration necessary.  Carol is obviously extremely knowledgeable about ASD and her ability to answer any/all questions inspired confidence in her teaching. Also, the personal anecdotes we very helpful in connecting with the material \
\
\
The class was very informational and I would definitely recommend the course to anyone that wanted to take the class. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
Extensive travel from our Office.\
love to take course updated material each year\
\
\
\
\
Extremely useful class.\
Excellent refresher!\
Angelo Garcia's delivery and style are interesting and informative.  Information is always up to date and relevant.  I will attend again!\
\
Keep up the great work you do training us!  Don't retire!!!!\
\
\
\
\
Great class will definitely recommend.\
The room on the last day was uncomfortable.  I'm certain you already know that.  I enjoyed the course....it was interesting and made me think about the need to have my staff trained in the same manner as they'd benefit from understanding the need for safety during construction and repair activities.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
the best teacher\
\
\
\
\
\
na\
\
\
na\
na\
\
\
Always a pleasure \
\
\
\
Angelo is the very best trainer out there. He is why we come back again and again!\
Great course with a lot of material covered.  Angelo is AWESOME\
\
Angelo made this course easier to understand with all the fundamentals of asbestos. \
\
The course was good for its purpose.\
I did not use the online training manual so I did not rate it.\
Excellent course and very knowledgeable instructor. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
I am on the mailing list already\
\
Always good to have this training to focus on the aspects of abatement work that get easily forgotten.  I'm glad to have this refresher training.\
Nice job! Did not review the online training manual\
\
\
It was a good amount of material to digest for 4 days, but everyone in Angelo Garcia's class passed the exam... that speaks for itself.\
\
\
Angelo is very kind, knowledgeable and always willing to help with any questions you may have. The course allowed us to learn about new regulations, latest news in regard to asbestos, and experiences. i found it very informative. \
\
\
\
\
\
Excellent training. \
\
\
\
\
\
I have been taking various osha courses for 23 years. Have to say staying awake wasn't easy. But this is my first course I stayed focused and Angelo was informative and took time to answer all questions with detail. My feelings to anyone new is don't worry you will actually like a training class for once. \
\
\
\
\
Angelo, during both my experiences, has shown to be knowledgeable, experienced, patient and passionate. He believes in a more comprehensive view of assessing the mold remediation rather than the strict focus on indoor and outdoor spore counts. It is a welcome perspective although I am concerned about the liability of the mold contractor since simple count numbers are more easily understood by adjusters, clients and heaven forbid juries.\
I have been through many of his asbestos classes. Angelo is a wealth of information on asbestos rules, regulations, facts, and knowledge on the subject. I have learned so much through his course over the years I feel confident speaking myself on the subject. \
well presented\
It was interesting having abatement handlers present during an assessment class. I rarely hear from the 'boots on the ground'. My use of my license over the last 2 years dealt with being a referee between a home owner and contractor and a client requesting periodic assessment from tenant complaints. After my synopsis of the condition of the tenant's complaint, I never hear back after my report.\
Angelo did a great job as always. Would highly recommend to all my associates in the industry\
\
\
\
\
\
No coments\
\
\
\
\
Angelo always does a great job. I recommend his services to any business that cares about their employees safety. He is very knowledgeable in all aspects of his job.\
Angelo is a phenomenal instructor. I have and will continue to recommend Future Environmental Designs to anyone looking to get certified in our industry.\
\
\
\
\
\
Thanks Angelo for great OSHA training \
\
\
Did not use the online training manual\
I had a thorough refresher.  Tricky question about 'recommended' respirator cartridge replacement gets me every time.  I know that I'd replace the cartridge when it became more difficult to breathe thru but I would always replace once the cartridge got drenched in the shower.  Good to see you again, Angelo.  Glad you're 'out there' for us. Regards, Henry Alilionis\
I enjoyed the course and learned a lot .I previously went thru the refresher course when I was in National Grid.This was a lot more extensive.The instructor was good.That's all I got.\
I have not viewed the online training manual but if it resembles the original, hard copy version I'm sure it is excellent.\
\
\
\
\
\
Angelo was truly professional and explained all points clearly I would recommend all friends and business associates to go his class Thank you Steven Bonnen\
\
Angelo Gracia is a great teacher,  knowledgeable about asbestos and environmental science, he answered all my questions and he is always willing to help. Great experience.  \
\
\
\
I have recommended Future Environment Designs to many of my colleagues for their training needs\
\
\
\
The course was very good. I would recommend that you continue to dicuss future changes coming to the industry. \
The course and content were streamlined to advance ones knowledge to achieve the stated goal but more is needed to reinforce and retain the vast materials exposed to in a short period.   \
\
\
\
The trainer has a great wealth of knowledge with variation of learning techniques to keep up the interest.\
\
\
Digestible, subjective, rebate-able and easily understood\
I found the managing difficult conversations and conversation structure helpful\
I found the break out sessions really useful and talking with others rather than the same group each time. Extremely good course.\
The whole course was relevant and useful\
A very good course, thank you\
\
The learning that I will take away from this course is - specific frameworks/tools that I believe I can implement in my job role.\
I found the content on how to approach people particularly helpful.\
Learning different tools to delegate were helpful on this course.\
Good examples/handouts and templates provided. Good time and opportunity to discuss topics in a comfortable and relaxed environment.\
Good to vary exercises and teams to keep interest and relevance. Everyone felt comfortable and happy to speak up. \
I found the Drivers explanation particularly helpful.\
Helped understanding management skill set\
Not overloaded with theory, good mix of practical\
Easy to follow, digestible, broken down nicely to not overload.\
Visual, interactive and involving. Making complex issues simpler to understand like the working documents, timeline, who's who,etc. Developing hypotheses, developing terms of reference and synthesising information.\
I really enjoyed the simulated case studies.\
The course excelled my expectations, it was interactive and safe.\
The course gave me better understanding about RCA looking at different aspects of the report investigation skills. It gave me a better understanding around how to complete analysis and draw out conclusions.\
The learning was delivered in a warm and inclusive manor. It was engaging and comprehensive. It gave me knowledge of working documents for planning and carrying out investigations effectively.\
Worthwhile course\
Useful\
Insightful\
Helpful course\
Worthwhile course.\
Very useful and enjoyable, just need to put into practice.\
Enjoyable course, a good opportunity to gather thoughts and ways to improve going forward.\
Excellent course, very useful.\
The course will help me focus my attention and what I look to achieve from meetings and communication.\
Useful course\
Its been a while since I attended this type of classroom training and while much of the content was a refresher, I enjoyed the day and felt it was a good use of my time.\
Great course\
I really enjoyed the course and felt it refreshed my knowledge. It also gave me a good insight into different learning techniques, great course.\
Brilliant session - enjoyed being put out of our comfort zone. Not in regular contact with training as part of my role, however I will certainly adopt learning and transfer to other aspects of my everyday activities. Positive impact on career development.\
Great course for new trainers.\
Great to learn about different styles, FAB, learning outcomes and structure.\
I was able to reflect on previous interviews with staff and consider how I might improve on these. The guidance on Report writing and structure was very useful. In particular clarification on areas of concern - as I have been completing this incorrectly in previous investigations. Excellent training with good discussions and role play.\
A well structured course, interactive, timely, flexible, responsive, excellent approach by trainers, friendly and helpful.  The structures, the process and understanding the timeline has been very helpful.\
I have learnt what skills are needed for completing investigations. I have gained full knowledge as I had no experience previously of completing investigations.   The delivery from the trainers had good interactive style, good knowledge and good use of role play. Being able to have open discussions within the whole group was helpful.\
The key learning skills that were particularly helpful are - understanding process, techniques. Awareness if responsibilities of others need for support. The trainers are helpful, worked well with the group, approachable. The course is a good mix of theory and practical exercises.\
The delivery of the programme is through and personalised enough to ensure the groups identified learning needs are met.\
Engaging, collaborative and group work were extremely helpful. Opportunities to test out skills and learn/receive feedback for improvement. Excellent, challenging in a safe environment, fun and thought provoking, practical and transferable skills and knowledge. Thank you\
Great training!  Good mix of practical, observations and classroom work. The structuring investigation and report + interview skills are particularly helpful.\
I feel the methods were appropriate for the training to work in groups and hear others viewpoints also aided the systematic skills required. Thoroughly enjoyed the days and feel it was run effectively and efficiently and aided my learning.\
Good focus on language used when completing an investigation. Enjoyed the interviews and found them stimulating.\
Useful inspiring use of role play, case formulation and depth of exploration used through out the programme. \
Well delivered, through safe space for learning, use/application of tools, structure of report.\
Engaging and interactive style promotes positive learning. Tools to use when completing investigations, processes to follow, how to structure a report, interview skills - managing different situations. The facilitators are approachable, engaging and enthusiastic. Thank you very much. \
Brilliant - interactive, discussions, group work, practical problem based learning.  Key learning points were tips on how to interview best, the structure and format of report writing.\
Developing knowledge and investigation processes and demonstrating findings\
\
Well presented\
\
\
\
\
\
I already do a lot of what was being spoken about due to my previous job roles, it was good to have practices confirmed.\
Fantastic training that has made a real difference to my management style and techniques. I found the collaboration from a delivery perspective, target objective setting and motives were particularly helpful.\
The trainer was super clear and helpful\
I found the learning about motives and conflict management styles very helpful\
Refresher on  motivation + conflict were particularly helpful as well as the group exercises.\
Excellent recap and helped real life putting into action now. \
Pace, insight and examples were good, getting groups of people to participate and share knowledge.\
\
Excellent course, process, TOR and interviews were my main aspect of learning outcomes. These along with the documentation and all my recommendations have been met.\
The course was very well presented and structured.\
Helpful variety of methods and styles - group work etc. Would recommend this course for those undertaking investigations.\
Excellent, useful tools when starting the process and how to structure reports.\
The programme was delivered at an even pace which was easy to follow and absorb the information.I thoroughly enjoyed this course and would recommend this.\
Excellent, thank you to Robin and Georgia.\
The simulation of a case was good, learning can be applied to ll types of interviews.\
Excellent, great balance of practical and classroom.\
Great role play  (normally do not like this). I liked the using visual ways in which to work.\
It was very good, interactive, exploitative and enough to generate interest. I liked the report writing structure and investigation skills. \
i liked the balance of interactive exercises and group work on how to structure an investigation report. Thank you a lot for enjoyable training course.\
All enjoyable and well delivered, clear and concise objectives and aims. Clear directions and requirements with approachable trainers. \
Friendly and informative.\
\
\
The practical sessions were particularly useful. It was good to focus on behavioral aspects.\
As mentioned previously is wasn't a course so I am struggling to answer some of these questions fairly. The hosts didn't really get the opportunity to teach us anything and there were no materials other than the slides they used and some great conversations. \
Good course\
\
Good training course particularly with a presentation to the ELT to prepare for but can also use in my business as usual role.\
Really informative and useful practical tips and insights, provided a lot of food for thought and ideas on how to improve and best deliver our presentations.\
Really good advice, will be of great use going forward.\
I feel the course has helped me prepare for the presentation to the ELT.\
An excellent course\
A very beneficial course\
\
Very clear and relevant. Pitched it right for my level of current knowledge and experience.\
Helpful and useful\
Group work useful and productive. Lots of information given without feeling overloaded. \
Group work was effective team building and sharing knowledge helps see the process from different colleagues roles.\
The whole package was excellent and improved my learning of total process. Very good course, clear and positive style.\
Well led and presented, clear, concise and positive training.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Great presentation and delivery from Mick.\
Thank you for a pleasant and informative course.\
Thanks for passing on your skills and knowledge.\
Very useful session - looking forward to other topics that have come up during the discussion!\
Problems with sound and chat screen (think this might be at our end though)\
Coaching workshop was very helpful.\
Real life examples and role play was a great learning practice. Sharing experiences, relaxed environment and group. Great mentoring and really insightful course. \
Coaching content was helpful, would like to more of this.\
\
\
Pace, topic and interactivity was great.The course is great and tied nicely to the rest of the precious courses. Extremely good.\
Pace and delivery of training were great, the amount of content was also very good. Group sessions were well crafted to feel involved. The notes and paperwork were top notch.\
Overall 3 days was really beneficial and suited my style of learning.\
\
\
Productive work through of our project presentation.\
\
\
\
\
Jackie  was a great help and very flexible with the course programme. \
Event was good - timing wasn't  ideal because we did not have enough time to prepare/practice presentation prior to the event.\
Jackie was a massive help - delivered very flexible and tailored session to our current project style.\
\
\
\
\
Good practical examples of how to apply the theories, would prefer more time for self reflection rather than being group work.\
Right mixture of interaction and theory. Would have preferred a pre-printed workbook  to the handouts or online materials.\
The real life examples and ability to make it relevant to our work was particularly helpful.\
Trainer knowledge was excellent, day course was a great pace.\
Very helpful, would be good to feedback to our company leadership team. Learning styles and 121's and setting objectives were also very useful.\
Depth of knowledge of the trainer was very helpful\
Factors that motivate, learning styles. emotional capital, assessing my time management were particularly helpful.\
Interactive, motivating course\
Unfortunately  again there were problems with no sound (especially Stephanie), even through volume turned fully - had to keep changing. Martin continues to talk over Stephanie, is there any way that the recording can be subtitled?  Missed a lot of the conversation, which can result in incorrect information, as power point slides did not seem to match my interputaion of the content.    \
I realised the difference between presenting and training. Zue was present and listened, considered our roles and knowledge. Encouraged us to try new styles,tools and that its the audience and trainer together. Good feedback delivered well and positively. \
\
Excellent course - very practical for my needs. Part of my role is to provide training on legal processes in the business. After this course I feel more confident in approaching my next sessions. Made me realise that I can make a 'dry topic' interesting. Excellent trainer.\
Overall a very good and very usefull course to attend.Zue was a fantastic teacher. I feel as though it could have been condensed into one day rather than two\
Initially sceptical. I really enjoyed the course. It was very practical and focused on each individuals needs. I definitely learnt how to simplfy my messages through several easy steps\
Overall good experience, engaging, practical, some new techniques, experimental in a safe place \
Very well organised. Lots of useful information. Trainer very knowledgeable, able to relate information day to day activities/situations. Use of language very advantageous. Very interactive and engaging, even better if there was some guidance of pitch, levels, tones etc.\
I feel the skills/tools I have taken away will help me to be more confident in engaging my audience and use  landuage that is most appropriate to my audience\
To use these tools that add value. Customise power points as necessary\
Good range of activities and opportunities to contribute.\
Thank you for an excellent session\
great webinar and good ideas - thanks\
\
\
Would be good to go into more depth \
The course was very good. It was very detailed and the instructor was very knowledgeable about the topic \
A detailed course full of usefull information and understanding to aggressive, Assertive and Submissive behaviour. Useful tips use in day situations\
Enjoyed the interactive training \
\
Course had some valuable exercises. I should  be able to learn more by practical use of training provided. 3 key skills will be useful. \
Andy was an excellent trainer with good enthusiasm, made sure everyone understood. Gave lots of examples, good practical sessions and relevant to individuals.\
Excellent well presented course \
Trainer very good at getting full class participation and enthusing people to the subject, very interesting course. I had already attended the Time Management and Communication skills courses that Bray Leino run and found they compliment each other well.\
course delivered some awareness\
Great training course - would highly recommend. The delivery of the content and probing nature were helpful.\
Excellent tutor\
It was very helpful learning delegation. How to coach people and still give them independence.\
Really helped me understand how to rationalise and prepare for a situation. I liked the 6 steps to raising an issue, skills for effective conversations.\
Very informative and a joy to be apart of. I thought it was a great combination of individual/team, physically/written work. It kept everyone awake and engaged. Thank you very much.\
I found helpful the breaking up of the topics with group discussion, activities and cake. Maybe slightly to much paperwork.\
Great course overall pleased and satisfied with knowledge gained. The group talks allowing us to effectively work on scenarios together.\
I found the new tools, strategies to deal with difficult conversations and how to have effective conversation that wont go off track very helpful.\
\
Very useful tools to take away and apply especially managing difficult conversations, coaching people and giving feedback.\
I found the 3 different coaching interesting. Fantastic day. Rob was great again.\
I found the personal experiences and videos helpful.\
The practice exercises made you think\
I found helpful the reflectors on own style and how different people in your team need different approaches \
A slightly quicker pace would have suited me, building in a little more time for self reflection on how to best use learnings on a practical level (not as a group exercise). The danger is being too busy in the office to consider implementation.\
Different personality traits to deal with team and situational leadership. Looking forward to communication elements in the next module.\
Pace, structure and clarity of each module were very helpful. This course has been like a reset button and very refreshing.\
The tutor was able to give very relevant examples for all points covered, which brought the theory to life. The filters were interesting. I am not 100% sure about how to apply that knowledge to managing my team.\
Pace and group activities were helpful.\
Good ix of individual and group work\
Understanding leadership styles and drivers\
Relevant/tailored/adapted, engaging and interactive\
Very interesting course, I feel I can take tools with me into my role, great tutor and location. Delegation methods and difficult conversations methods were helpful.\
I liked the practical work and doing the coaching scenarios. Really good course - Robbie was great and would really recommend him and the course.\
The mix of methods of content delivery handouts and break outs was particularly helpful.\
The practical elements were really useful to put information into context and I found that this gave better understanding. A lot of information is given in a short period of time.\
Learned a lot of new ideas on being a supervisor\
\
Very informative, not to structured, great flow. Very helpful - will be using what Ive learnt in the future.\
Andy was very knowledgeable, hugely engaging and I thoroughly enjoyed the course. I also met a number of great colleagues I never would have \
A really good course, enjoyable and relevant. I will be able to use this in my job \
\
Very useful\
Really enjoyed this training. Andy was a good trainer and made sure he understood everyone's training needs and supported learning. The course made me more self aware and helped me identify a few techniques/things to address to appear more assertive\
\
Very useful, good pace, fun class\
Well delivered and interesting course\
Very good trainer, well presented and some good interactive and engaging work with others\
Very engaging trainer and the team were very good and open about issues. All objectives were met. Very helpful trainer, clear and actively listened to problems we faced.\
It was great to be around people who are feeling the same and all of us being encouraged to be open. \
I have found the raining session very informative and beneficial. It will help me in my everyday work to understand peoples behaviour and deal with people and situations more effectively. \
Examples given at each stage. Good knowledge and experience shown. Fun tasks that involved the whole team. Really enjoyed the course and learnt a lot. Thanks Robbie!\
A great amount of time was spent on each section allowing me to acknowledge all information. I focused on the tutor and hardly refereed to the handbook, however it will be good to take it away.\
I found the whole thing very useful and enjoyable. I look forward to day 2. I found Adairs and Drivers questionnaire particularly useful.\
Fun environment which helps learning. open space to discuss freely. Clear delivery.\
The speed of the delivery and style presented in allowed me to fully understand the subject matter.\
I found the whole day fantastic and very informative, The best bit I learnt was the 'Drivers'. Overall course was fantastic, I really enjoyed the games and interaction.\
Very useful. The pace was great and handouts were very useful.\
Overall the session was enjoyable, the discussions in chat were valuable. For me it would have been great to hear more examples for the other people on the call, but I know on chat this can be difficult. I loved all the different links out to current thoughts and articles. \
Enjoyed the webinar thank you. I did have some trouble during the webinar with the chat as it was very slow and did not upload . Often behind the discussion. Also several slides were incomplete or blank and I'm not sure if that was on purpose or a problem of some sort.\
Very useful tips. Would have been useful to plan a second run of our training to incorporate the feedback\
Very useful,  especially feedback. Glad I came.\
Very good course. Highlighted areas to improve training delivery. Good balance of theory and doing things and discussion. Wasn't excessive educationalist theory which I was expecting - pleasant surprise \
This is a good course for any one who likes to train others\
\
Very interesting course - thank you\
Was not what I was expecting as it focused on getting people's engagement  up front which I will take with me and pursue\
Covered a lot in a short period of time.\
Time log, urgent vs important, Input from delegates was good.\
\
\
Short, sweet, enough to think about something different.\
For a short course, this was very useful.\
\
\
Paced well and open to interruptions/questions/practical exercises - not enough time.\
Too short but great!\
\
The change curve was helpful. Course delivery was relaxed and informative. Great Session.\
Great pace and course length\
\
Interactive course\
The change curve is useful.\
All very good, would consider a longer course to look at in more depth should I be required to manage a team.\
\
\
Well structured and good level of participation. Good content for short session and useful to discuss ideas with others.\
\
Varied, active involvement. Good and useful to have handouts to take away.\
Group work and review of group work were helpful. \
Gary was clearly knowledgeable and experienced. Very engaging.\
Real life applications in learning\
Useful handouts. could have done with more time.\
Handouts to take away at the end of the day were helpful. Tutor was excellent and ran a fully engaging session.\
Friendly tutor\
The visual aids and examples were useful and relevant.\
Short and direct\
\
Well delivered by both trainers.\
Interesting theory, the trainer is good. Good course.\
Flexible and adapted to direction of group. Exceptionally informative well suited to 1 hr training.\
Power point slides - very interesting and useful. \
Clear and fun\
\
Some easily remembered points, very good for a quick introduction to a subject.\
\
\
Grammer examples were particularly helpful.\
The exercises were helpful. Possibly could be longer, a lot covered in a short time.\
Would have been good to have a longer session.\
The pace, quick simple notes were helful\
\
Given time constraints of Learning day - detailed information provided in the course which provided a platform for further development.\
Both speakers presented well and clearly. Both had great knowledge of items\
It was interesting and useful\
\
Its been good to get short core messages in 1 hr slots of taster training sessions. Gives a better idea of a longer course is suitable. Good levels of discussion. \
\
\
More time would have been better\
\
Clear, concise run through of key issues.\
Writing skills and punctuation were helpful.\
HPT Case Study -discussion in pairs was helpful.\
Interesting, not sure how to apply to day to day work\
\
\
\
It would be nice to watch a video of effective chairing as part of the course. Would have liked to spend more time on the people v management aspect. \
Good amount of relevant content in a short period of time.\
Started a useful conversation which we can take further. Too little time - could have done with more.\
Great engaging trainer - captured everyone's attention. The case study and discussions around how you could apply this to work was helpful.\
Enjoyed - would like to do full course. Liked the linking it to own team.\
\
\
I liked the Team Sky example\
The conversation with the tutor and other delegates + exercises were helpful.\
I enjoyed the session. The principles of plain English.\
Short, simple, to the point, highlighted the important bits.\
The pace and content was very helpful\
Tutor was very positive, pro-active and friendly.\
\
Mock interviews were very helpful. Training excellent.\
Panel interview practice was good to cement ideas. The pace was very good and communication clear. I feel much more confident attending an interview as a panel member.\
\
Exercise to be proactive was helpful.\
Tutor was very good. The quadrant diagram was very interesting and could be useful when managing time. \
Dealing with interruptions, emails, reactive/proactive % for planning. Delegating work, all these were helpful.\
Group discussions were very helpful, use of flip charts. Giving relevant examples for each member.\
The practice interviews were very useful and the feedback was particularly useful. It would be useful to have more time so we could go over aspects of fair treatment of candidates in more details.\
It was very good to practice and do scenarios . I think 1 day is too short to address all issues. Especially how to deal with nervous/shy candidates.\
I found the tutor very insightful and knowledgeable about subject. Course time could be longer to give more practice but the overall delivery was very good. \
Generally met with my requirements. I think the course could of been broke down a little more and carried out over 2 days. \
The course covered everything expected and was delivered extremely well. \
the course was intense and we had a laugh,\
Very friendly relaxed training, handouts were very useful and good you can review them to support myself in work. The course ran at a strong pace to cover all which was required. In a clear and concise manor including practical work.\
Nice interactions and group dynamics. Everybody was easily implemented in the course. I will use the contents in my day to day work.\
Delivery was good as was the content. I enjoyed the course it was fun.\
Gary was very engaging and got the most out of us. Really pleased to be able to take and action plan approach to the casual staff. I found everything on the course relevant.\
Trainer and course most enjoyable too work with.\
\
The course covered all aspects of presenting and was conducted in a very supportive and friendly environment. Could have done with more time to prepare for the 10 minute presentation. Great course.\
The little tricks that we never stop to think about were helpful. It was a very helpful course where we made some presentations to detect our difficulties and also the good stuff.\
I found it helpful working with each other within the group.\
Very useful and helpful exciting course, structure of presentation and body language was very helpful.\
I found the event inclusive, loads of participation. Excellent delivery, very 'safe' environment. Really good course, perfect no of people and have learnt a lot.\
I found preparation of the presentation and the presentation without power point particularly helpful. I enjoyed a lot doing this course with an excellent tutor. \
The course covered all aspects of presenting and was conducted in a very supportive and friendly environment. Great course - would be amazing to follow it up with a larger group day course.\
Interactive sections. I definitely feel like I can use what I have learnt in my work life. It was very relevant.\
\
Gary was very knowledgeable and approachable which allowed for more free open discussion. Very pleased I came on the course and it was very helpful.\
Handouts were very useful. The tutor was best at mentoring us in this course.\
\
Lots of tasks - kept engaged\
Delegation definition was very helpful. \
The tutor gave real life examples\
\
\
\
By involving delegates we looked at ways others solve problems we are tackling day to day. Very helpful suggestions. \
Enthusiastic and powerful delivery. The relation constantly back to our jobs was brilliant and so useful. Gary brilliant as ever.\
It was very interactive and focussing on personal issues. That made it relevant for me and other participants. Gary is a great instructor, communicates good and has plenty of experience. It was a useful day. \
Handouts were useful \
I found the introductory exercise and time matrix helpful. I did not find manage interruptions helpful only because it does not apply to my work.\
The Quadrant of work was very helpful.\
I found helpful - pacing of interview, structure of interview, How to put candidates at ease. How to analyse outcomes from interview.\
I found it all very helpful. I found the three examples were too similar and the course might benefit to not be too focused on HR/General skills.\
Interactive training course and lots of feedback.\
Gave me confidence in my ability and suggested areas which would help me improve my Panel Interviewing Skills.\
Good general introduction to Panel Interviewing. Lots of new ideas.\
Engaging delivery\
The trainer used several topics suiting the individual needs.\
The BJ style handout was particularly helpful. Discussing effectiveness of various styles of writing and tone.\
Very knowledgeable and friendly tutor. Good handouts, good power point presentation. Very happy with this session. \
Gary provided examples to put the principles into context. Gary was amazing - very knowledgeable and friendly.\
Relaxing the firm's house-style to common problem areas for the delegates.\
Useful on grammer, use of bullet points etc. Excellent trainer.\
Easy to ask questions and interact with the trainer\
Tutor was friendly and approachable\
Tutor very engaging, exercises very good.\
\
Easy to follow and interactive\
I found going over basic grammer again particularly helpful\
Well presented course on how to conduct a neutral investigation using the RCA tools.\
Ok, confusing at times. Good link slides to handout.\
Good style of getting us to contribute and interact.\
Numerous methods were used both interactive and power point with expertise. \
\
Good teaching style, very interactive \
Engaging, good balance of teaching with interaction with other participants\
Really relevant and concise, could have a little less talking in the introduction\
Good balance of Power point and group exercises \
Balance of interactive and informative was good, perhaps needs more space to practice interviewing.\
It was very good course, it could be delivered over 2 days\
Interactive and good practice on case studies\
Very thought provoking and engaging, however a lot to cover in one day. \
Excellent\
Very engaging - good mix of teaching and learning through the duration of the course\
Effective informative, lots of information to process in one day\
\
Good methods - could be slightly faster paced\
Clear and thorough. Slides and discussions relevant to presentation \
\
Good course\
All the training has been relevant and applicable. Good use of resources - Power point/handout/exercise balance\
Good methods\
Very thorough and well presented\
Well paced with appropriate learning\
Very good course\
All relevant and could be better as a 2 day course\
Excellent, I plan to use everything and to be SMART\
The role play and case was very helpful. \
Very useful and informative course\
The trainer was clear, clearly very knowledgeable and interactive. \
I found one of the examples we were given difficult to follow due to lack of info in the scenarios (partial tabular timeline).  Good slides with clear and understandable delivery.\
Excellent\
Interactive and example led objectives that helped me to understand and enjoy the course. I would have liked to go into more detail on some subjects. Maybe 3 days would be better. I was engaged throughout the whole day. Thank you.\
Understanding behaviours/attributes/filters. Insight into psychology and emotional investment. Would have liked more time on planning.\
Clear and easy to understand. Group work helped with people I didn't know and learn what others go through. Noticed similarities. Also really enjoyed map A to B table.\
Great course, very interesting with plenty of fun elements, the day flew by.\
Easy to understand. Delivery was clear and straight forward. There was good flow from topics. \
Good tutor, understandable and clear. Good venue with a relaxed environment.\
Very helpful \
The information and message of the content was very clear and concise. I feel very confident with what I have learnt today and using it in the future.\
Great course. \
Overall good course\
\
\
\
\
Good event in an interesting subject\
Good course\
Good course with an interesting topic\
Good event\
Good course, enjoyed it\
Good event with an interesting topic\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
It was s great course\
Be good to have a copy of Belbins team roles on wavelength. Found it beneficial\
\
The insight to my personality and other team members and how to adapt\
\
The big picture of 'why' needs to be made clearer\
Perhaps workshop slightly long - felt could have been covered in 1.5 hr. Some interesting discussions and food for thought. Thank you\
\
\
\
\
Business need's to be much clearer on messaging (why) Agile (local to office)\
Did feel course is good general management skills v schooling and old fashioned shoe horned to fit Agile. Eg meetings- this is discipline not just Agile.\
\
Already have a highly Agile team, therefore of little use\
\
\
\
\
All good and to time. Thanks\
\
\
I fully understand the need for Agile working. Will discuss further with my manager my needs.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Well delivered in a relaxed environment. Provision of training materials further in advance of the course would perhaps be beneficial.\
\
Very well organised and presented course. Thank you.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Good presenter - made it move with pace and interesting work groups\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Good interactive exercises\
Very good course. Excellent pace and use of examples. Thank you\
\
\
I found the course very helpful and will take my learnings into my role\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Very enlightening and beneficial\
This course made me aware of all the different training techniques. It identified where I had to change my style of training and to adapt my way of training for different people. Gave me good training in how to plan and prepare, be aware of the quality of information to be given.\
I feel the course was excellent, the information where all getting as a stepping stone to progress.\
Made me aware of how to coax the information that the trainee already knows out of them. How to involve trainees in training. Being curious and exploring what they already know, listen, make visual aids interesting.\
Found the training to be fun and to the point. It flowed from stage to stage not fixated \
I'm very excited to put into practice what I've learned through doing the train the trainer course. I found it a lot more enjoyable than I thought.\
Very relaxed atmosphere, made to be fun at right times, always assured and helpful with throughout training experience. Would recommend to other work colleagues. Feeling more confidence for future training.\
Great facilitating by Zue, challenging, well rounded training. Handout could be more concise or a summary would be useful for a quick reference.\
Was sceptical at first but turned out to be enjoyable and useful. Will recommend my co-presenter attends\
Learning styles and feedback given were really useful, suggestions of what to do to keep session active were also really helpful. I liked the suggestions on how to respond to less helpful answers. Zue was very knowledgeable and supportive.\
\
Very informative course with loads of helpful advice on how to become assertive using the correct techniques.\
Good course, very interesting and learning a lot.\
\
\
Really good course, which will be of great help for me when I go back on the shop floor. A course well enjoyed. Thanks.\
Very good training event, prove useful in a day to day basis.\
Enjoyable course that was well presented. Think what I've learned will help in my day to day job.\
An excellent training exercise which I believe will help me greatly in my day to day experiences in work. I fully recommend this course to everyone and thought Sue was impressive.\
Relaxed and comfortable atmosphere where everyone contributed\
\
I have gained a lot of other roles within the company.  Learnt many methods to help me become a better operator and to understand other peoples needs and qualities.\
The course was very interesting, helped me understand the different level of people's drivers. I have learnt how to delegate effectively.\
What a fantastic course, the best I have ever attended. This should role out to all Norgine employees and the most fantastic presenter.\
Very good course. I will recommend it to others.\
Sometimes I had a few problems to understand everything. I am German and this is my second language.\
\
Really useful and enjoyable course. Will make me evaluate my workload, taking on new tasks, reducing take on of new tasks and prioritising workload.\
Great course and very engaging. Should be rolled out across Norgine.\
Being new to Norgine I am still trying to find my way in the Company. I have found this course invaluable to get other employees perspective. Also, to get ideas on ways of working going forward.\
Very enjoyable course and extremely well presented course. Although no concepts were actually new (due to previous training, knowledge and experience) it has worked really well as a refresher and has made me rethink how we could potentially improve.\
Good course, well run by Zue\
I really enjoyed the course. It will really make a difference in the way I will devise , deliver and manage training.\
An excellent course, delivered by an excellent trainer. I would recommend to colleagues.\
Great 2 days, very useful, specific to needs, would happily recommend to colleagues.\
For a course on communication Skills, I felt it lack practice of core skills - listening, question formulation, responding. It did cover a lot of background - re why people behave or respond in certain ways, while this was accurate and relevant, we slipped off the core topic and allocated practice. Andy was very responsive to the needs of the group and this was part of the problem in taking time from practice.\
Training is really good. We talked about all aspects of the communications and how to make it better.\
This was a good course that meets PDR.\
Excellent course. Specifically targeted to attendee needs.\
Well tailored training, good pace. Will be applying this to daily life.\
Andy was excellent in the way he went through the material of the workshop showing great knowledge of the subject and ability to blend in different jobs needs into the commercial styles. Very engaging and intelligently presented. \
Very well constructive materials. Lots of useful information. Excellent presentation.\
Good, general purpose foundation course in communication.\
\
Andy was very instructive and helpful and  did his best to tailor the session to suit the audience. \
\
Really informative and useful course. \
Well structured\
Overall. the course was very helpful to me and provided me with insight-fullness into my relationship with my direct reports and peers.\
I feel like I am able to give a presentation in a clear, concise way and feel more confident. The structure aspect is what really resonates with and something that will stick with me.\
Zue was great at ensuring the learning environment was comfortable which really helped us learn over the 2 days. She created a positive environment where feedback was welcomed and really appreciated. Thanks Zue for a great couple of days.\
Achieve all the objectives I had previously identified. It has given me so much more to think about going forward.\
Useful to - build powerful presentation                  - manage your stress                  - train yourself properly The training had lots of exercises which makes it very impactfull\
Zue is a great trainer, very enthusiastic and really equips you with the skills and confidence you need.\
Met all my objectives in how to improve my presentations skills.e.g How to be engaging, interactive, memorable and motivational. Thank you.\
Very good, made me completely re-think how I prepare my presentations. Tip for recording myself or looking in a mirror very useful. \
Enjoyed the course\
Excellent course, learnt a lot of useful tools and techniques. Andy was an excellent trainer.\
\
\
Excellent session, well put together with good delivery. Engaged all members well and listened to real life scenarios to make training relative. \
\
Engaging course that worked with actual examples from our working environment.\
\
Good for new skills to be used within the work place and improving others.\
Well run and tailored to needs of group\
\
Good course, useful topics, made me think of other alternatives. Got me thinking, well presented. Good fun\
Really enjoyed the course and learned techniques to tackle people who I manage and to tackle people who manage me.\
Good at pinpointing how learn behaviours effect our overall efficiency/effectiveness. Gave us practical tools to help on prioritising.\
I thought the course was well presented and gave a lot of information about prioritising workloads and people. Was fun as well.\
Well presented and easy to understand. Rob spoke and understood the variety of people in the workshop\
Excellent tools to organise priorities.\
Detailed and informative\
Enjoyable course. Free flowing and interactive\
Very useful information to help with my day to day activities.\
A very well delivered package of training. The course was relevant to my needs, Zue was very pleasant throughout.\
The presentation course gave me a big insight on how to plan and prepare myself to do a presentation. It gave me more confidence in myself for the future purposes like interviews and briefings.\
Much more confident Will plan better and then do slicks - only if necessary H-plan - purpose, hook, objective, re-cap Practice introduction PRACTICE - PRACTICE - PRACTICE Catch questions.  THANK YOU\
Great content that can be used during my training sessions.\
Good course will definitely be of use to me. Looking forward to putting what I have learnt into practice and hopefully seeing the results with improved presentation skills.\
\
Enjoyed Steph as the trainer.\
Given the short time allowed for the trainer to collate and organise info it was well delivered\
Very good training in a limited period of time. A good set of notes to use for the internal training that we will deliver.\
The course was very good\
\
Great interactive training\
Stephanie has been easy to understand for non - native English speakers due to clear voice, appropriate speed\
Useful and clear training\
\
\
Was a good course, reached its objectives.\
The course 1) verified my profile as a driver                      2) Reminded about active listening                      3) Gave role simulations as a tool for self development\
\
Very useful course. Thank you\
\
Good course which generated lots of discussion\
Attended course as I am looking at aspects of EI for my team and other behaviour initiatives. Re-enforcement of current knowledge.\
Topic very interesting and relevant, however the presentation a little haphazard and not as well delivered\
Some activities could be given more consideration. Overall an enjoyable thought provoking course. \
The course was well organised. Some audio/video clips could be used to make it more lively. \
Trainer was excellent in tailoring the day towards the trainees specific needs and requirements and was really engaging throughout. \
Very good\
Very good course. Lots of useful skills and tools to use in the workplace and in personal life. Touched on lots of different areas with the perfect level of detail.\
Andy delivered an excellent course, one of the best I've been to. It was interactive and appropriate to our group. I am leaving feeling more empowered to communicate with colleagues in a more senior position and colleagues I have conflict with.\
Very enjoyable course, hope it will help me be better at communication.\
Excellent course, with excellent content. The trainer was very helpful in putting across the key points and helped put it in to our every day roles. Was easy to listen to and very informative. Thank you Andy.\
Was a very good course but it is a vast subject and there was only so much you could cover in the time given.\
Very well presented and engaging, left me feeling positive and motivated to try the new skills and knowledge taught during the course.\
Very useful training. \
\
Very interesting and useful training - however one day training for  this topic is just too short.\
Really interesting course - will go away and read The Chimp Paradox.\
A well delivered and interesting short course from Andy who clearly knows his subject very well. Lots of concepts and ideas presented which I can evaluate further.\
Enjoyable, interactive session. Helped me think more about my communications styles and the differences with other peoples styles.\
Very goo course with lots of break out sessions. Made me think more about my colleagues and not to make assumptions about them.\
The overall course was an overview and allowed me to refresh key areas and to further expand on identified areas in my day to day work. \
Some definite take home messages that I can use in everyday situations. \
I found this course extremely useful on a personal level. It is nice to know that I am not the only one who feels the way I do about communicating with colleagues.\
\
\
\
\
Good foundation for trainers to ensure effective training is provided\
Was a very good two day course, enjoyed it and found it very enjoyabl\
I found this training session to be of very good use to me as I can use the skills I have gained to carry our future training in my workplace.\
This course made me more aware of asking questions when training and acknowledgement. Also to make use of visual aids and to prepare.\
Interesting course and the trainer Zue was very good in passing on her skills and knowledge. Good encouragement to get the best out of everyone.\
Zue taught me some valuable points in which I could change and concentrate on that I was unaware of\
I actually left the session 30min into the webinar as felt it was more an open discussion, where people weren't really answering the trainers questions.   I would have found it more beneficial to receive information about varying solutions that can create a learning approach, however appreciate that the course was targeted at a wide range of experience.\
Listened to recordeing on iPad: voices very variable despite sound on maximum / difficult to hear at times. Also stated to go slow speed in places: not sure if this has something to do with download, (internet access at home could be improved, but is 'legal' - this is why I don't invest in technology, smart phone etc. better things to spend money on! As LSA: found learners want to learn the subject and some come for social needs, they do not want to have to lean IT skills first, so not sure how to get them to connect emotionally. May also work with IT all day so don't want additional IT for learning, want to give eyes a rest and not flick from screen to screen, like pens & paper to work things out.  Is handwriting also deteriorating with the increased use of IT, spellcheckers etc.  Which can't be used in exams? Prices may increase do to additional preparation work, technology required, so learners reject courses on cost: have ex tutors working in community hubs teaching practical skills / hobbies at a fraction of the price in traditional teaching ways, with more learners than they had in the classroom!  Must also remember that most communication is actually non. verbal, so I think we need a considerable amount of classroom based, for social intergration. Looking at lots of different techniques and approaches are we spreading ourselves too thinly, so long term we a not longer master of anything and become less effective? Starting from scratch will need a lot of input and time, which Tutors may not actually have: these are the people who actually have to implement the changes and work with them. I agree it is a balancing act with Tutors needing ICT skills they may not have sufficient time to develop along with other CPD, lesson planning, paperwork etc. I am still surprised by the number of young learners who say they do not have IT Skills, but this might be an excuse for not doing things. Did I do blended learning at school? I used to do homework, research and proactive projects, pepartion in the library with peers, many years ago, I.e work outside of the classroom to compliment and enable the teacher to measure if I was achieving, learning, developing as expected.  \
\
Last question - follow-up support - I'm only just finishing the webinar so don't know about that!  It was very difficult to log on as I had to reset my password, install the adobe thing (although I have attended before and don't remember having to have done that), and then wait for the password reset - all this could be in the calendar invite so people could be more prepared when the webinar starts. One of the emails I had saved in my Outlook calendar didn't even have the website link to the webinar - I had to go and search it, found it in another email, tried to log on, and then all the password malarkey. Just saying it's not very user-friendly to log on to your seminars!  As I missed about 10 minutes in the beginning because of all of the above, I'm not sure if I missed the point where the objective of this webinar was covered. For me, it left me feeling that the whole point of 'how to develop a blended learning mindset' was from an individual's point of view, or L&D perspective - how this can be embedded in YOUR mind. I thought it would be from the organisation's POV, so I feel I didn't get much ideas for that. How to 'prepare' your organisation to welcome and embrace blended learning and eventually achieve the BL mindset. So, unfortunately, I feel I didn't get that much out of this webinar, but it could be because I missed some of it. The most insightful part was the chat box and other participants' thoughts and comments.\
Liked the interactive nature - thought provoking\
\
\
I can't remember the stated objectives, to be honest. Follow-up support has not been applicable (or it's too soon for it).  I found the presenter a bit slow; at times, she had long pauses as if she hadn't quite prepared what she was going to say or she was preoccupied. Perhaps it's not the best thing for the presenter to be reading the comments whilst doing the presentation, as it functions as a distraction and generates disruptions in the flow of the presentation. It would be better if the moderator handled the comments and passed them on to the presenter. I felt it was a little slow-paced.\
Very practical, and lots of useful tips.  Interactive and user-friendly.  Great graphics.  Happy to recommend to others!  Thanks again\
The presenter was very clear, the structure of the ppt was easy to follow and the slides engaging. I really enjoyed it thanks!\
\
\
Overall was good - could be better with more interaction\
\
The course Tutor (Zue) was excellent and made the course extremely enjoyable. One of the best course Tutor's I have had experience of meeting.\
In mine opinion the course was to short. The duration of the course need to be 1.5 day at least to go deeper in how to use the skills/knowledge.\
I was expecting more usefull tips and tools which would have help me to improved my communication. Maybe this is too much requested from a one day course.\
Amy was very positive and a charming subject matter expert, telling personal stories to help embed the learning. A great fun filled session, thank you for taking the time. Now to try and convince the 'top cats' to start with Engagement first rather than it being a bi/side product\
I thoroughly enjoyed Zue's 2 day course where I gained knowledge in presenting with professionalism , showed me the areas where I need to improve my presentation skills.  Very worthwhile for anyone who has to stand before an audience of one or 200 !    A life skill that goes further than the office environment - thank you!\
\
Great content, engaging presenter, nice clear slides. It consolidated my knowledge and gave me some useful models to help me understand why I'm experiencing blockers!\
Really good piece of learning. I felt that everyone had a chance to comment/ask questions. it felt like a safe environment.\
\
I joined in with a  colleague to watch and listen to the webinar and we were both really disappointed with the low level that it was pitched at.  Neither of us took anything of use away that we could then use in the workplace.\
It was pretty intensive, working through lunch break to get it done and finished by 4pm. It might have been more comfortable if we'd had a bit more time to practice skills and a proper break before going to the full panel practice sessions.\
\
I found this session incredibly helpful. It has motivated me to be more active in taking control of not just my career by my personal life also. I feel that this training is of huge benefit in particular to any one who has struggled this year to keep a positive attitude towards  their work and/or their inner well being. \
\
I felt although the trainer was good, the delivery of the course was not what I expected. There were no PowerPoint slides, which was good, as this can be draining. However I felt it was a lot of discussion, which was good in one sense, but could feel overwhelming at times and found it difficult to concentrate. Maybe some more interactive activities, as opposed to group work doing discussions and flip charts. \
#NAME?\
Diane was a fabulous trainer. I achieved everything I wanted to achieve from the day and will definitely be putting my learnings into practice for all future interviews.\
\
Not applicable in terms of follow up support, as I haven't yet required any, but the trainer was great in that he offered us all to contact him, via CEH Learning & Development if we did need any help. The programme was great, and Andy was a great trainer - really interactive and happy to take questions and comments at all times. Everything I learnt in the course has been useful to me, and I expect to be using it in the near future. All of the advice and feedback he gave us was really helpful, and I would definitely recommend this course to others in the future. \
The programme and concept was good, although we did stray dependant on the groups needs / discussions potentially leading us off topic, and perhaps spent too much time on some areas e.g. Myers Briggs Type indicators, of which some would have little / no understanding.\
I thought this course was very good.  It gave me lots of useful ideas and tips about best practice in panel interviewing.\
Haven't asked for any follow up support so can't comment on this.\
\
\
Approaching this as an employment lawyer, rather than as a manager / HR professional, I found this event gave valuable insight into countering some of the situations that can ultimately contribute to claims by some employees.\
\
The course exceeded all my expectations. A big thanks to Robbie who was outstanding.\
\
Great course - learnt plenty of new skills that I will be able to put to practical use within my role as well as consolidating on existing skills.\
\
I was very satisfied with the training received by Robbie. He fully understands the material and has a very engaging way to teach more theoretical orientated matter. I took a lot from the course and implemented a lot of things already and my team is working better/happier. I would recommend the course to everyone who has no management experience but also as a refresher for trained managers. \
The sound wasn't always great - but I was also sitting in an open plan office which isn't always the quietest!  I\
\
Enjoyed the event \
Could do with slides please afterwards\
I found it really interesting to learn more about Stephanie and the Learning Business. The content was also valuable in making me think about my career path and following the course I updated my LinkedIn profile!  \
This has been an informative webinar with many great tips on how to build that relationship whether it is business or personal\
A great webinar, fantastic facilitator, I found it really helpful\
\
\
\
Stephanie was really knowledgeable and passionate about the subject matter so it was easy to be motivated by her\
The Trainder was excellent - he made it fun and easy to understand.  The demonstrations and games helped to  get the information accross as well as making it enjoyable.   I understand that it was a taster and I would definitely be interested in any future full lenght courses held.\
A good course, lots of useful pointers just the challenge of taking forward all of this within my organisation.\
Great talking to other people   \
\
\
The training was promising but was too short. I cannot recommend this training if it lasts 1 hour and half  since this only gives a flavour of what can be discussed about the assertivness.  I enjoyed the short taster session even if I did not find that enough 'theoritical' and 'practical' tools have been teached. \
I haven't given 5 stars as we only had a taster session for 1 and half hours, but what I found very interesting was it made you think and then look at things differently so I am now trying to change my habits and would very much appreciate a full days course into how you can realise your potential.\
very enjoyable webinar, thought provoking and a good reminder on the subject\
As this was taster session for assertiveness, it will be great to have full session on it.\
Support is offered by HR. In my opinion, management could take an active interest in personal skill development of their reports.\
\
The fridge in the room was too noisy and could do with more toilers\
\
Overall a great course but seemed a little too long spread out over 2 full days. The follow up and support materials, e mails and updates have been outstanding and deserves to have generated a lot more feedback and involvement than it actually has so far.\
The programme really helped me raise my awareness of my energy levels and personal resilience, which has made me more effective day to day. I'm now leaving work with the energy levels I had when I arrived, meaning I am just as productive at the end of the day as at the beginning.\cell \lastrow\row}